EXHIBIT 7 TO THE BASIC AGREEMENT

Translation from the French for information purpose only

THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
WORK – JUSTICE – SOLIDARITY
-------------------MINISTRY OF MINES AND GEOLOGY
------------------------PORT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
AGENCE NATIONALE D’AMENAGEMENT DES
INFRASTRUCTURES MINIERES (ANAIM)
AND
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA
AND
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD

Conakry, ________________________ 2010

PORT AGREEMENT
This Agreement and its exhibits (“Exhibits to the Port Agreement” as hereinafter defined), together
the “Port Agreement” is entered into in Conakry, Republic of Guinea,
Between:
1.

The Republic of Guinea, represented by his Excellency Mahmoud Thiam, Minister for Mines
and Geology (hereinafter referred to as the “State”),
On the first part,

2.

L’AGENCE NATIONALE D’AMENAGEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES MINIERES,
represented by Mr. Saada Baïla Ly, General Manager SNIM (hereinafter referred to as
“ANAIM”),
On the second part,

3.

GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA, a société anonyme with a Board of Directors,
registered under the laws of the Republic of Guinea, with a share capital of 50,000,000 Guinean
francs, which registered office is at Immeuble Mamou, BP 5090, in Conakry, represented by Mr.
Monsieur Eddy Kenter, CEO, duly authorised for this purpose, acting pursuant to article 4 of
the Basic Agreement (as hereinafter defined),
On the third part,

4.

GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD, a private company, registered under the laws of the
British Virgin Islands, which registered office is at P.O. Box 3152, Road Town, Tortola, British
Virgin Islands, represented by Mr. Monsieur Eddy Kenter, CEO, duly authorised for this
purpose, acting pursuant to article 4 of the Basic Agreement.
On the fourth part,
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA and GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD are
hereafter together referred to as “GAC SA” for the purpose of this Agreement.
(Hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Parties” or as individually a “Party” hereto)

2

RECITALS
Whereas:
-

Under the terms of the Basic Agreement signed on 15 October 2004, amended on 16 May
2005, ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Guinea on 19 May 2005 (the
“Basic Agreement”) and promulgated on 4 July 2005, the State has granted, in particular:
A mining concession by Decree No D/2005/053/PRG/SGG for the supply of bauxite
to the Plant within the area covered by the Mining Concession as defined in article 2
of such Decree and the benefit of all rights which are necessary for the completion of
the Project in the Concession Area;
The right to develop, design, construct, finance, possess, operate and maintain the
Port Installations (as hereinafter defined) on the Port Zone which is made available
to GAC SA for this purpose.

-

The State and the Investor have decided to construct the Port Installations and the related
infrastructures under the conditions defined in the Basic Agreement and in this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE,
THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
TITLE I
DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Agreement, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement and which are not
defined in this Title will have the meanings set out in the Basic Agreement. In the event of contradiction,
the definitions set out in the Basic Agreement shall prevail.
“Agreement” or “Port Agreement” means all the provisions of this Port Agreement and the Exhibits to
the Port Agreement, which form an integral part of the Port Agreement, in particular relating to the
financing, the construction or the operation of the Alumina Dock and the Jetty referred to herein and
intended for the Port Activities (as such term is defined in article 12.2 of the Basic Agreement). The Port
Agreement constitutes Exhibit 7 to the Basic Agreement and is an integral part thereof.
“Port Activities” has the meaning set out in article 12.2 of the Basic Agreement.
“Storage Area” means the land, the details of which are set out in Annex 7 D and which are part of the
Concession Area.
“ANAIM” means l’Agence Nationale d’Aménagement des Infrastructures Minières de Guinée which has
acted in the past and continues to act at present in the name and on behalf of the State, or any other
structure of the State which may act on behalf of the State and in its name for the purposes of this
Agreement, as it is the case for ANAIM; the State shall cause (porte-fort) the obligations undertaken by
ANAIM pursuant to this Agreement.
3

“Annexes to the Port Agreement” means all documents specifying or completing the provisions of
this Port Agreement to which they are attached and of which they are an integral part.
“CBG” means the Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée, means the Compagnie des Bauxites de
Guinée, which carries out the bauxite mining operations in Sangaredi and surrounding zones.
“Port Charges” means the sums due by any ship accessing the port of Kamsar for the services, costs,
royalties, rights and other charges corresponding to the services provided in the port as specified in
Article 8 and Annex 7 E. They correspond, and will correspond for the duration of this Agreement, to the
rights usually charged in ports of the same type as Kamsar for services of equivalent quality and safety
and for the same kind of product; in any case, they will be equivalent to the amount paid by the other
ships accessing the port of Kamsar and in particular the amount paid by CBG or by its customers in
Kamsar.
“Channel” means the access channel from the Atlantic Ocean to the port of Kamsar with an
approximate total length of 17km on the Rio-Nunez and a width of 120 meters.
“Trust Account” shall have the meaning set out in Article 5.1.4 of this Agreement.
“Basic Agreement” shall have the meaning given to it in the recitals hereto.
“Effective Date” means the execution date of this Agreement by the Parties’ representatives stated in
the heading of the present Agreement.
“Port Zone” means the offshore area, starting at the high water line, on which shall be built the dock
and the jetty as well as their possible extensions, whose coordinates are set out in Exhibit 5 to the
Basic Agreement and are specified in Annex 7 A to this Port Agreement.
“Industrial Zone” means the area at Kamsar on which shall be built and installed the Industrial
Installations and Equipment, as well as their possible extensions, whose coordinates are set out in
Exhibit 6 to the Basic Agreement.
“State” means the State of the Republic of Guinea.
“Expansion of the Port Installations” means any expansion of the Port Installations that may be
decided by GAC SA to meet its needs.
“Escrow fund” means the bank account set forth in Article 7.3.
“GAC SA” means Guinea Alumina Corporation SA or any Affiliate of its group which may replace it.
“Industrial Installations and Equipment” means the installations and equipments for the storage of
alumina and Intrants, to be constructed and improved to ensure the handling of the products and
equipments built and installed on the Alumina Dock, the Jetty and the Storage Area (which are in
particular necessary for the activities of the loading and unloading of alumina and Intrants), which shall
be and remain entirely the property of the Investor and which are necessary to the operation of the
Project and are the purpose of the Basic Agreement.

4

“Port Installations” means the Alumina Dock and the jetty starting at the high water line in the Port
Zone, identified in the development plan for the Port Zone set out in Annex 7 A hereto and which form
an integral part hereof, excluding the Industrial Installations and Equipment.
“Jetty” means the infrastructure set forth in Article 2(i)(b) and identified in development plan for the Port
Zone, in Annex 7 A of this Port Agreement.
“Construction Phase” means the period starting on the Effective Date and ending on the last day of
the twelfth calendar month following the Date of Commercial Production Start-up.
“Alumina Dock” means the infrastructure set forth in Article 2(i)(a) and identified in development plan
for the Port Zone, in Annex 7A of this Port Agreement.
“Port Royalty” means the wharfage fees (also called “Quai Maxima”) due by the ships. These fees
correspond, and throughout the duration of this Agreement they will correspond, to the rights usually
charged in ports of the same type as Kamsar; and will in any event be of an equivalent amount with
respect to the Quai Maxima for each type of product and service as those paid by other ships docking
at the port of Kamsar and in particular those paid by the ships chartered by CBG or its customers.
TITLE II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: PURPOSE OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.1 The purpose of this Port Agreement is to define the technical, economic, legal, administrative,
financial, fiscal, customs, land, maritime, environmental and social conditions according to which the
State and GAC SA accept to build the Port Installations.
To this end, its purpose is:
(i)

For GAC SA, to design, finance, build, develop, hold, operate and maintain the Port
Installations for the purposes of the Project;

(ii)

For the State to confirm, without limitation, an exclusive concession to the benefit of GAC
SA to the Port Zone granting GAC SA the exclusive right to develop, design, build, finance,
hold, operate and maintain the Port Installations on the Port Zone and to perform the Port
Activities and to grant the facilities and guarantees, as defined in Title VII and Title VIII
hereof and in the Basic Agreement, to allow the implementation of the Project;

(iii)

For the State to grant to GAC SA, without limitation, the exclusive right to develop, equip,
finance, operate and maintain the Storage Area.

1.2 It is noted that the technical, economic, legal, administrative, financial, fiscal, customs, land,
maritime, environmental and social conditions according to which GAC SA undertakes to build and
operate the Industrial Installations and Equipment on the Industrial Zone and which are all necessary to
the Project, are defined in the Basic Agreement.

5

1.3 If this Agreement includes any exceptions provided for by the Basic Agreement to the Current
Legislation at any moment whatsoever throughout the duration of this Agreement, such exceptions shall
have the force of law during the whole term of this Port Agreement.
1.4 In the event of a contradiction between the provisions of this Port Agreement and the provisions
of the Basic Agreement, the provisions of the Basic Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE 2: DESCRIPTION
The infrastructures which are the object of this Port Agreement are the following:
(i)

On the Port Zone: the following Port Installations:
(a)

the Alumina Dock; and

(b)

the Jetty.

The specifications of the Port Installations are set out in Annex 7 B.
(ii)

On the Industrial Zone: in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Agreement, all the
Industrial Installations and Equipment as defined in article 12.1(ii) of the Basic Agreement.

GAC SA undertakes to develop, design, build, finance, hold, operate and maintain in Kamsar, the Port
Installations and Industrial Equipments and Installations in accordance with the following conditions:
(a)

GAC SA will benefit on the lands which may be necessary for the needs of its activities
and for any Expansion of the right to increase the surfaces of the Port Zone and of the
Industrial Zone in accordance with the terms of the Basic Agreement.

(b)

It is specified that GAC SA is free to rely upon Direct Sub-Contractors of its choice to
develop, design, build, operate and/or to maintain all or part of the Port Installations and
Industrial Installations and Equipment and for the completion of all or part of the Port
Activities. The Direct Sub-Contractors will benefit, as necessary, from the same rights as
those granted to GAC SA under the terms of the Basic Agreement and this Port
Agreement.

(c)

The other technical specifications of the Port Installations as well as the work schedule
relating to the Port Installations, which is part of the schedule defined in Exhibit 8 of the
Basic Agreement, are set out in Annex 7 C of this Agreement.

(d)

The conditions for expansion, improvement of the maritime signaling and operation of the
Channel and/or the turning basin (as the case may be) will be specified in the
Infrastructure Agreement referred to in the Basic Agreement.

(e)

The conditions for implementing and operating the Industrial Installations and Equipment
are set forth in the Basic Agreement.

6

TITLE III
CONCESSIONS
ARTICLE 3: EXCLUSIVE CONCESSION ON THE PORT ZONE AND THE INDUSTRIAL ZONE
3.1

(i)

The State confirms the exclusive concession on the Industrial Zone and the Port Zone
granted to GAC SA pursuant to the terms of the Basic Agreement.

(ii)

Moreover, the State hereby grants for the benefit of GAC SA an exclusive concession on
the Storage Area, according to the same provisions as those set out in article 12 of the
Basic Agreement for the entire duration of the Basic Agreement.

3.2 The State hereby acknowledges that the rights granted to GAC SA include the right for GAC SA
to fully control and to use without any restriction and exception, the various elements composing the
Port Zone and the Industrial Zone and the Storage Area for the purposes of the Project or any other
project which may interest GAC SA in the scope of its activities.
ARTICLE 4: EXCLUSIVE CONCESSION ON THE PORT INSTALLATIONS AND THE STORAGE
AREA
4.1 Throughout the duration of the Basic Agreement the State shall have the ownership of the Port
Installations (financed either by the Investor or by the State) and the Storage Area and their possible
extensions, developed, designed, financed and built by the Investor, as provided for herein.
4.2 GAC SA shall benefit from the State for this purpose from an exclusive concession for the
purposes of the operation of the Port Installations and the Storage Area throughout the entire duration
of the Basic Agreement.
4.3 The State acknowledges and confirms that GAC SA shall have the full and complete ownership,
without any restriction, of the Industrial Installations and Equipment, allowing it, without limitation, to
develop, transform, build, use, operate and improve these installations and equipments and materials
for the purposes of the Project and its activities.
4.4 Within the scope of this exclusive concession on the Port Installations and the Storage Area the
State guarantees to GAC SA the exclusive right to develop, modify, transform, build, use, operate and
improve all or part of the Port Installations and the Storage Area for the purposes of the Project or any
other project which may interest GAC SA in the scope of its activities.
4.5 Therefore, GAC SA may use the Port Installations and the Storage Area to provide any services
it wishes to supply to the benefit of any third party whatsoever.
4.6 The State undertakes not to grant, to any third party regardless of its activity, any right that may
adversely affect in any manner whatsoever the rights granted by the State to GAC SA to the Port Zone
and to the Storage Area or to possible extensions of these.

7

TITLE IV
FINANCING
GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd will be responsible for the financing, the construction and the implementation
of the Port Installations. ANAIM and/or the State can propose to GAC SA to obtain the concessional
financing in order to finance the Port Installations.
ARTICLE 5: FINANCING OF THE PORT INSTALLATIONS BY GAC SA
5.1 The provisions of article 16 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and
obligations of the Parties relating to the financing of the Port Activities as set out herein.
The State confirms that it accepts to actively participate in the financing process initiated by GAC SA to
the extent required, and to positively meet any request that may be made in this respect by GAC SA or
the Lenders, in particular if such financing solutions are discussed with multilateral organizations such
as the World Bank.
5.2 The State acknowledges that significant financing shall have to be sought by GAC SA with their
shareholders and/or the Lenders for the purposes of the Port Activities on the basis of the guarantees
granted by the State to GAC SA pursuant hereto, in order for GAC SA to build the Port Installations.
5.3 Therefore, the State expressly confirms that it is favorable to this Agreement and to the Project;
in addition, the State acknowledges that GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd shall incur, throughout the duration of
this Agreement, significant expenses and investments and shall obtain substantial financing and equity
to develop, design, build, finance, hold, operate and maintain the Port Installations on the Port Zone
and the Industrial Installations and Equipment, and, therefore, they shall proceed on the principle that
the State shall observe and guarantee its obligations as well as those of ANAIM hereunder and under
the Basic Agreement and shall ensure that ANAIM and the Authorities shall observe their undertakings
hereunder and under the Basic Agreement.
5.4 For the purpose of the implementation of Article 7.2 hereafter, the State, guarantees to GAC SA
that it will take all the necessary measures, in particular with the Kamsar port authorities, so that all Port
Royalties and the Port Charges paid by the users of the Port Installations (such as the ships chartered
by GAC SA or its customers) are paid in a Trust Account, which shall be set up by GAC SA in
agreement with the State, with a bank of international reputation; GAC SA will appoint, in agreement
with the State, a Trustee to manage the Trust Account, as soon as possible from the execution of this
Agreement.
The State shall take the same measures to ensure that the Port Charges paid by the abovementioned
users are paid to this Trust Account.
The sole mission of the Trustee will be to pay, upon receipt of the Port Royalties and Port Charges to
GAC SA, the amount which corresponds to the Port Royalties to an account to be specified by GAC SA
for this purpose, and to pay the State, to the account to be specified by the State for this purpose, the
amount which corresponds to the Port Charges subject to the provisions applicable to the port charge
corresponding to the Additional Royalty for the maintenance of the Channel. The abovementioned
provisions do not affect whatsoever the provisions of Article 7.2; GAC SA shall pay to the State in place
of the Port Royalty due by itself, its Direct Sub-Contractors or customers, the amounts referred to in
Article 7.2(i) and 7.2(ii).
8

In the case of financing by the State, the Trust Account will receive from the State the amounts
corresponding to the Port Royalties along with the amount corresponding to the Port Charges to be
repaid, regarding the Port Royalty pursuant to the provisions of Article 7.3.1 and regarding the Port
Charges to the State subject to the provisions applicable to the Additional Royalty for the maintenance
of the Chanel pursuant to the provisions of the Infrastructure Agreement.
Each month the Trust Account shall transmit a statement of the Trustee and of its transfer register to
GAC SA and the State.
5.5 On the Effective Date, GAC SA will provide ANAIM with the version, available at that date, of the
development and construction plans as well as the costs and schedules for the construction of the Port
Installations. Such information will be updated progressively in accordance with the progress of the
works.
ARTICLE 6: FINANCING BY THE STATE
6.1 The State confirms that it accepts to actively participate in the financing process initiated by GAC
SA to the extent required, and to positively meet any request that may be made in this respect by GAC
SA or the Lenders, in particular if such financing solutions at concessional rate are discussed with
multilateral organizations such as the World Bank.
GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd will make themselves available to participate actively to the process of
concessional financing request by the State to the lenders.
In light of the elements gathered during this process, GAC SA will analyze the possibility of a
concessionnal financing and will assess its feasibility with regard to the Project and its own financings.
All concessional financing shall bring together the mutual agreement of the Parties.
It is understood that the setting up of a concessional financing shall take into account the state of
progress of the Project and shall not, in compliance with the Terms of the Basic Agreement, delay or
make the Project and its financing by the Lenders of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd more difficult. The State
acknowledges that such financing shall be approved by the Lenders of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd.
If the State, with the help of GAC SA, manages to obtain concessional loans for the construction of the
Port Installations, the State will entrust the management of these loans to GAC SA.
The necessary actions will be taken by the State in order to ensure the automatic payment to GAC SA
of the Port Royalty in the Trust Account in such manner as to correctly ensure in the form and time
required, the complete service of the debt.

9

TITLE V
PORT ROYALTIES AND CHARGES
ARTICLE 7: PORT ROYALTY
7.1

FINANCING BY GAC SA

The Port Royalty will be used for the repayment of the financing obtained by GAC SA to design,
develop, construct, implement and operate the Port Installations throughout the duration of this
Agreement, in the general context of the completion of the Project as specified in the Basic Agreement.
The State authorises GAC SA to receive the totality of the Port Royalty for this purpose and to ensure
the maintenance of the Alumina Dock.
7.2 It is noted that considering the financing which must be sought by GAC SA with the Lenders and
the investments necessary for the purposes of the development, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the Port Installations and of the Project, the Parties confirm that pursuant to
article 12.6.2 of the Basic Agreement, no user fee (or any other sum which could be substituted to it)
shall be due to the State by GAC SA or by the ships chartered by GAC SA or by its Direct SubContractors or its customers for a duration of twenty five (25) years from the date of the beginning of
alumina export by GAC SA in exchange for the availability and right of use of the Port Installations by
GAC SA, its Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers or the ships chartered by them.
(i)

At the end of the abovementioned twenty five (25) year period, GAC SA will pay to the State, and
throughout a new period of twenty five (25) years, an annual sum equal to two percent (2%) per
year of the construction cost of the Port Installations in exchange for the availability and
exclusive right of use of the Port Installations by GAC SA, its Direct Sub-Contractors and its
customers or the ships chartered by them.

(ii)

At the end of the twenty five (25) year period mentioned in Article 7.2(i), the amount of the annual
sum abovementioned will be increased up to five percent (5%) per year of the construction cost
of the Port Installations in exchange for the availability and exclusive right of use of the Port
Installations by GAC SA, its Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers or the ships chartered by
them throughout the remaining duration of the Basic Agreement.

7.3

FINANCING BY THE STATE

7.3.1 In the event of financing by the State, GAC SA undertakes to ensure the service of the debt by
means of the Port Royalty by allocating the aforementioned Port Royalty paid by the ships chartered by
GAC SA or by its Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers in consideration of their access to and their
use of the Port Installations as follows:
-

Service of debt ...................... 70 %

-

Payment to the State............. 20 %

-

Escrow Fund ......................... 10 %.

Service of the debt means the payment of the principal, interests, charges and accessories, relating to
the loans subscribed by the State.
10

7.3.2 In accordance with the abovementioned provisions:
(i)

The State guarantees to GAC SA that it will take all measures so that the Port Royalty paid
by the users of the Port Installations is paid directly into the Trust Account.

(ii)

The State will pay directly through the Trust Account the abovementioned sums in the
name of and on behalf of the State to the benefit of the lenders which provided the
financing, until the complete repayment of the debt granted by the lenders to the State.

(iii)

The Trustee will pay the portion of the Port Royalty corresponding to the payment to the
State into the account to be designated by the State.

(iv)

The Trustee will pay the corresponding sum into the Escrow Fund as defined in Article 7.3
herein.

7.3.3 After the financing granted in accordance with the above provisions has been repaid, 90% of the
Port Royalty will be paid for the benefit of the State and 10% of aforementioned Port Royalty will be
paid into the Escrow Fund unless otherwise agreed between the Parties at that time.
7.3.4 It is expressly agreed that the fact that concessional financing was obtained by the State in
accordance with the above conditions will not affect the rights granted by the State to GAC SA on the
Port Zone for the requirements of the Project. In addition, in the case of such concessional financing,
no Port Royalty or any other sum substituted to it will be due by GAC SA for the duration of twenty-five
(25) years referred to in the first paragraph of Article 7.2 and the sums referred to in Articles 7.2(i) and
7.2(ii) will not be due by GAC SA; in such a case, ships chartered by GAC SA, its Direct SubContractors and/or its customers will pay the Port Royalty and the Port Charges into the Trust Account
accordance with the terms of Article 5.1.4 above.
ARTICLE 8: PORT CHARGES
The Port Charges include the charges described in Annex 7 E.
The Parties confirm that, throughout the duration of this Agreement, any ship chartered by GAC SA, its
Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers shall pay the Port Charges in accordance with the procedures
set up for this purpose in the port of Kamsar and pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
The allotment of the Port Charge for the purpose of the maintenance of the Chanel is dealt with in the
Infrastructure Agreement.
ARTICLE 9: MAINTENANCE OF THE PORT INSTALLATIONS
9.1 In the context of the exclusive concession of the Port Installations that is granted to it by the
State, GAC SA undertakes to ensure the maintenance and repair of these Port Installations in the name
of and on behalf of the State.
9.2 The Parties agree that from the amount of the Port Royalty for the two periods of twenty-five
years set out in Articles 7.2(i) and 7.2(ii) above, as well as from the Port Royalty referred to in
Article 7.3.3 above, the Trustee shall withhold ten per cent (10%) which shall be kept in an escrow
account to be opened at an international bank of first rank in order to guarantee the maintenance and
repair costs of the Port Installations and of the Storage Area in the name and on behalf of the State
throughout the entire term of the Basic Agreement. The terms and conditions of operation for this
11

escrow account shall be agreed by the Parties (for the purpose hereof, the “Escrow Fund”) as soon as
possible.
These amounts may only be used for the purpose of maintenance and repair by GAC SA of the Port
Installations and the Storage Area; their effective use by GAC SA shall be done in consultation with
ANAIM.
TITLE VI
OBLIGATIONS OF THE INVESTOR
ARTICLE 10: EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF
The provisions of article 17 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the employment of staff for the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 11: RIGHT OF ACCESS OF THE STATE
The provisions of article 8 of the Basic Agreement shall apply to the Parties for the right of access of the
State to the Port Installations.
The State and/or a representative of ANAIM shall be present upon the final acceptance of the Port
Installations.
ARTICLE 12: PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND CULTURAL HERITAGE
The provisions of article 20 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the protection of the environment and cultural heritage within the scope of the
Port Activities.
ARTICLE 13: PURCHASES, SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
GAC SA and its Direct Sub-Contractors will, to the extent possible, use services and raw materials from
Guinean sources and products manufactured in Guinea insofar as these services and products are
available on competitive terms as to price, quality, warranties and delivery time as is available on the
international market.
ARTICLE 14: OPERATION REGULATIONS AND SCHEDULE - INSURANCE
14.1 GAC SA shall observe the port regulations resulting from the Current Legislation.
14.2 GAC SA has exclusive use of the Port Installations throughout the duration of the Basic
Agreement; it shall prepare an annual operation plan of these Port Installations according to its exports
and imports, which shall be communicated to ANAIM.
14.3 The provisions of article 18 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and
obligations of the Parties relating to the insurances subscribed for the purposes of the Port Activities.

12

TITLE VII
GUARANTEES GIVEN BY THE STATE
ARTICLE 15: COOPERATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES – AGREEMENTS WITH THIRD
PARTIES – ASSISTANCE AND AUTHORIZATIONS
The provisions of article 21 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities. Moreover, it is reaffirmed that the Basic Agreement and this
Agreement include exceptions to the Current Legislation which will prevail over all other legislative or
regulatory text in force, at whatever time throughout the duration of the Basic Agreement according to
the provisions of the Basic Agreement.
ARTICLE 16: LEGISLATION STABILIZATION
The provisions of article 22 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties for legal, economic, financial, fiscal, custom and any other purpose relating to the Port
Activities.
ARTICLE 17: GUARANTEES OF PROTECTION OF THE ASSETS AND NON-EXPROPRIATION
The provisions of article 23 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations
and to the assets of the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 18: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC GUARANTEES
The provisions of article 24 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
The State guarantees to GAC SA that GAC SA, its Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers will not
pay for the duration of this Agreement any port royalty or port charge, other than the Port Royalty
(subject to the provisions of Article 7.2) and the Port Charges, for access to the port of Kamsar and to
the installations and port services.
It is noted that, the use of the royalty for the maintenance of the Channel (which will have the same
characteristics as the other charges included in the Port Charges) will be as set forth in the Operations
Agreement relating to the Channel.
ARTICLE 19: BANK GUARANTEES
The provisions of article 25 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 20: ADMINISTRATIVE AND LAND GUARANTEES
20.1 The provisions of articles 26.2, 26.4, 26.5 and 26.6 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure
to the rights and obligations of the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
20.2 The State represents and warrants that it has not granted and that it shall not grant during the
term of the Basic Agreement to any third party whatsoever, a right of ownership, access or use, of any
13

nature whatsoever, to the Port Zone and the Port Installations and/or the Storage Area, or rights which
may unfavourably affect the rights granted by the State to GAC SA pursuant hereto (including the right
to access and use the Channel).
20.3 The State represents and warrants to GAC SA that it has taken all the steps and given all the
necessary instructions to the Authorities concerned in any way whatsoever with the Port Zone, the
Dock Zone and the Storage Area and the Port Activities, including the Authorities responsible for
transport, port and customs, so that the rights granted to GAC SA pursuant hereto shall be fully and
constantly respected, during the term hereof, in particular regarding ground, water courses, Channel
and sea concerned by the Port Installations.
20.4 The State represents and warrants to GAC SA that the rights it holds pursuant to the exclusive
concession of the Port Installations and the Storage Area and of their equipments and in particular the
right to develop, transform, build and improve the Port Installations, the Storage Area and their
equipments for the purposes of the Project or of any other project that may interest GAC SA shall not
be subject to any limitation by the State.
20.5 GAC SA shall have the right to undertake, with the cooperation of the Authorities, all the filings
and registrations that may be necessary in order to better protect the rights granted hereby to GAC SA
by the State.
20.6 As from the Effective Date, the State guarantees that GAC SA shall have the right of access and
use of the Channel in order to be able to put in place and implement the Port Installations, the Storage
Area, the Port Activities, the Project Activities and the Project. To this extent, the State shall take the
necessary steps with ANAIM, the port Authorities of Kamsar, CBG and any third party that may be
concerned so that the Investor may fully benefit from its right of access and use, in the most efficient
manner, while taking into account the existing port activities and without there being a negative impact
neither on the Port Activities and on the Project Activities nor on obtaining the necessary financing for
the execution of the Project and the Port Activities.
20.7 GAC SA is entitled to make all uses and operations necessary to the Port Activities and to other
activities on the areas that have been allocated to it.
20.8 GAC SA may also import, install and operate any equipment to produce electrical energy and
distribute and use this electricity for the Port Activities and the activities of GAC SA.
TITLE VIII
TAX AND CUSTOMS REGIME
ARTICLE 21: TAX AND CUSTOMS PROVISIONS
The provisions of articles 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the Basic Agreement along with the Accounting
and Tax Exhibit shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of the Parties relating to the Port
Activities as set out in this Port Agreement.

14

TITLE IX
FINAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 22: TERM
This Port Agreement is entered into for a term starting on the Effective Date hereof and shall remain in
force and fully effective for the duration of the Basic Agreement, pursuant to article 34.2.1 of the Basic
Agreement which shall apply to the rights and obligations of the Parties in this respect.
ARTICLE 23: ASSIGNMENT – SUBSTITUTION – NEW PARTY
GAC SA shall have the right to assign, transfer, pledge or alienate, and transfer by any other means, its
rights and obligations pursuant to this Agreement to any Affiliated Company and to any entity for the
benefit of any Lender.
ARTICLE 24: SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
The provisions of article 36 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the Parties relating to the
settlement of disputes.
ARTICLE 25: WAIVER OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY
The State hereby specifically waives any right of sovereign and execution immunity as to it and its
property in respect of the enforcement and execution of any final decision or award of an arbitral
tribunal constituted pursuant to Article 25. No claim or counterclaim may be made under the pretext that
GAC SA has received or might receive under an insurance contract or from any third party (be it public
or private) an indemnification or other compensation in respect of part or all of the damages suffered by
it.
ARTICLE 26: APPLICABLE LAW
The provisions of article 36.4 of the Basic Agreement will apply to the Parties with respect to the
applicable law for the purposes of the present Port Agreement.
ARTICLE 27: INDEMNIFICATION
The provisions of the Basic Agreement with respect to indemnification from which GAC SA benefits
shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of the Parties relating to the Port Activities as set out in
this Port Agreement and in particular articles 19, 34, 35, 37 and 38 of the Basic Agreement and if
necessary articles 21 and 25 of the Infrastructure Agreement.
ARTICLE 28: TERMINATION
Subject to the provisions of the Basic Agreement, each Party shall have the right to terminate this
Agreement in the event of a material default of its covenants or warranties by another Party if such
defaulting Party has not cured the material default within sixty (60) Business Days following receipt of
the notice requiring to end the material default and without prejudice of any indemnification which could
be claimed against the defaulting Party under the Basic Agreement.
15

ARTICLE 29: FORCE MAJEURE
The provisions of article 38 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 30: LANGUAGE AND MEASUREMENT SYSTEM
The provisions of article 39 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 31: CONFIDENTIALITY
The provisions of article 40 of the Basic Agreement shall apply ipso jure to the rights and obligations of
the Parties relating to the Port Activities.
ARTICLE 32: NO WAIVER
Except in the event of an express written waiver, the fact that one Party shall not have exercised, in
whole or in part, the rights granted to it under this Agreement shall not in any way constitute an
abandonment of the rights which it has not exercised.
ARTICLE 33: NOTICES
Any notice made in the context of this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered to the recipient by
registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt or by special courier or by a certified telex, whether or
not preceded by a fax to the following addresses:
Ministry of Mines and Geology
To the attention of:
His Excellency the Minister
Address:
Immeuble ANAIM – CBG, BP 295, Conakry, République de Guinée
Telephone:
+ (224) 30 45 45 26
Fax:
+ (224) 30 41 19 13
ANAIM
To the attention of:
Address:
Telephone:
Fax:

Directeur Général ANAIM
Immeuble ANAIM – CBG, BP 295, Conakry, République de Guinée
+ (224) 30 45 45 26
+ (224) 30 41 19 13

All notifications to GAC SA and GAC Ltd must be made to the addresses below:

16

GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA
To the attention of:
General Manager
Address:
Immeuble Mamou, BP 5090, Conakry, République de Guinée
Telephone:
+224 63 35 42 84
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION Ltd
To the attention of:
Chief Executive Officer
Address:
P.O. Box 3252, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands
Telephone:
+61 7 3167 5183
Fax:
+61 7 3167 5001
ARTICLE 34: ANNEXES TO THE PORT AGREEMENT
The Annexes of the Port Agreement attached hereto are an integral part of this Agreement.

17

Executed in Conakry, on ________________2010 (in four (4) originals in French).

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA:

FOR
THE
AGENCE
NATIONALE
D’AMENAGEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES
MINIERES:

His Excellency Mahmoud Thiam
Minister of Mines and Geology

Mr. Saada Baïla Ly
General Manager

FOR GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA:

FOR GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION Ltd:

Mr. Eddy Kenter
CEO

Mr. Eddy Kenter
CEO

18

LIST OF THE ANNEXES TO THE PORT AGREEMENT
Annex 7 A:

Port Zone

Annex 7 B:

Technical Specifications of the Port Installations

Annex 7 C:

Additional Technical Specifications and Port Installations chronogram

Annex 7 D:

Coordinates of the Storage Area

Annex 7 E:

Current Port Charges

19

Annex 7 A - Port Area

20

Annex 7 B – Specifications of the Port Installations
The Alumina Dock and Jetty are designed to support the conveyors and the equipment required for the
handling of the alumina export and the importation of coal, HFO, caustic soda, lime and limestone
necessary for the operation and the maintenance of the Refinery and for the activities of GAC SA as
specified in the Basic Agreement.
The Alumina Dock and Jetty will be located in the Southern part of the Kamsar Port, at approximately
0.7 km in the South of the existing bauxite export quay. Drawings MT-2, MT-5 and MT-10 below give
more details of the suggested layout. It should be noted that changes could be brought to dimensions
during the final phase of the design.

21

22

23

24

Annex 7 C – Port Installations Additional Technical Specifications and Chronogram
The Port Installations include a platform of two quays able to receive and moor two 80,000 DWT cargo
liners each, an access Jetty between the anchorage and the coast. The structure is designed to be
extended with an additional quay.
These Port Installations will have the following characteristics:
A platform with steel foundation piles and a concrete deck with a length of 523 m and a
width of 27 m, the piles will be vertical and tilted. The platform will allow the loading and
the unloading of freight between the boats and the shore. The Alumina Dock will be + 7.5
m above the sea level.
The equipments of the Alumina Dock include: quay protectors, mooring buoys, signals and
navigation assistants, ladders, etc.
A berth to capable to accommodate boats with a length up to 235 m.
A Jetty made up with a concrete deck supported by steel piles to provide an access to the
Alumina Dock from the coast. The trestle will be approximately 1 500 m of length and
approximately 9 m of width. The Jetty will be equipped with a security fence.
The structures will be conceived in accordance with the international standards for the marine
structures.
The materials used will be adapted to the marine environment.
The security and load factors will be bases on the BS 6349 standard or equivalent international.
The design of concrete structures will be done in compliance with the BS 8500 standard or equivalent
international.

25

26

Rail
Infrastructure

Industrial
Installations and
Equipment

Port Installations

Stabilization of
the Port Zone

New Commercial
Dock

months

16 Months

12 Months

6 Months

25 Months

29 Months

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35

Construction Durations

The present schedule is an approximation only and has been developed under the same principles
applicable to the Project schedule provided in the Basic Agreement.

Annex 7 D - Coordinates of the Storage Area
The coordinates of the Storage Area are indicated in Exhibit 4 to the Basic Agreement (Industrial Zone).

27

Annex 7 E - Current Port Charges
The Port Charges applicable at the Effective Date are as set out hereafter.
PORT CHARGES 2010 (USD)
HARBOUR DUES & FEES

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.04

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

Per vessel
Per vessel

400.00

400.00

400.00

400.00

400.00

Per vessel per call

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

FIXED RATES
Pilotage
Tugboat service

- Docking
- Undocking

Light Dues
Harbour dues
Agent fees
Small Misc
Banana car
Freighters
Tankers
Bulk carriers

- Anchorage
- Alongside
Under 5,000 NRT *
Under 10,000 NRT
Under 10,000 NRT
Under 20,000 NRT
Over 20,000 NRT

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

NRT each way

NRT per call
NRT per call
Per call
Per call
Per call
Per call
Per call

* NRT = Net Registered Tonnage, referring to the English long ton of 2.240 pounds (1.016 kg)
VARIABLE RATES
Side wharfage
Additional royalty for the maintenance of the Channel
Top wharfage

0.455
0.047
0.219

0.521
0.047
0.219

0.465
0.033
0.085

0.283
0.033
0.085

0.246
0.034
0.098

Per ton of cargo
Per ton of cargo
Per ton of cargo

Total variable rates

0.721

0.787

0.583

0.401

0.378

Per ton of cargo

0.50

0.50

0.50

0.50

Per cubic meter

Custom

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

Per Week day
Per Week End day

Health (Quarantine)

20.00

20.00

20.00

20.00

Per call

ANAIM (Merchant Marine Inspection)
Import/export levy
a) First ,voyage in a calendar year
b) Each subsequent voyage

0.100
500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

Per cargo ton
Per call
Per call

Ships guards
PTT (Permit to use SATCOM)
Doctor visit
Hospitalization - Medical

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

Per 24 hours
Per call
Per visit
Per day

Crew change/ Repatriation:
a) immigration visa
b) Escort
c) Air fare Kamsar/Conakry
d) Transit fee (Hotel - food)

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

Each
Fixed
Each way
Per day

SERVICES AT COST
Water

International air fare to be arranged by ship's owners prior to leaving as well as PTA tickets

ANAIM and the Concessionaire will update the Port Charges from time to time.
28

