EXHIBIT 3 TO THE BASIC AGREEMENT

Translation from the French for information purpose only
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Work -- Justice -- Solidarity
-------------------MINISTRY OF MINES AND GEOLOGY
---------------------INFRASTRUCTURE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
AGENCE NATIONALE D’AMENAGEMENT DES
INFRASTRUCTURES MINIERES (ANAIM)
AND
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA (GAC SA)
AND
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD (GAC Ltd)

Conakry, ________________________ 2010

INFRASTRUCTURE AGREEMENT
This Infrastructure Agreement and its Annexes is entered into in Conakry, Republic of Guinea,
Between:
1.

The Republic of Guinea, represented by his Excellency Mahmoud Thiam, Minister of Mines
and Geology (hereinafter referred to as the “State”),
On the first part,

2.

L’AGENCE NATIONALE D’AMENAGEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES MINIERES,
represented by Mr. Saada Baïla Ly, General Manager SNIM (hereinafter referred to as
“ANAIM”),
On the second part,

3.

GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA, a société anonyme with a Board of Directors,
registered under the laws of the Republic of Guinea, with a share capital of 50,000,000 Guinean
francs, which registered office is at Immeuble Mamou, BP 5090, in Conakry, represented by Mr.
Monsieur Eddy Kenter, CEO, duly authorised for this purpose, acting pursuant to article 4 of
the Basic Agreement (as hereinafter defined),
On the third part,

4.

GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD, a private company, registered under the laws of the
British Virgin Islands, which registered office is at P.O. Box 3152, Road Town, Tortola, British
Virgin Islands, represented by Mr. Monsieur Eddy Kenter, CEO, duly authorised for this
purpose, acting pursuant to article 4 of the Basic Agreement.
On the fourth part,
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA and GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION LTD are
hereinafter together referred to as “GAC SA” for the purpose of this Agreement.
(Hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Parties” or individually a “Party” hereto)

2

RECITALS
Whereas:
-

The State has granted to GAC SA the right to develop the project which includes
constructing and operating an alumina Plant as well as port, railway, road and other
essential infrastructures for the project in the Sangaredi region and an industrial zone at
Kamsar (the “Project”) pursuant to a Basic Agreement signed on October 15, 2004
amended by Amendment n°1 signed on May 16, 2005, the Basic Agreement and its
Amendment n°1 having been ratified by the National Assembly of Guinea on May 19, 2005
(the “Basic Agreement”);

-

The State, through ANAIM, has port, railway and other infrastructures in the area of
Kamsar under concession pursuant to the Concession Agreement (as hereinafter defined),
which are all necessary for the implementation of the Project and for which, pursuant to the
Basic Agreement, the State has guaranteed to GAC SA a right of access and use for the
entire duration of the Basic Agreement; furthermore, pursuant to the Basic Agreement, the
State has guaranteed to GAC SA a right of access and use of the Channel;

-

GAG SA and the State confirm that the Project Activities are strictly dependent upon the
possibility for the Investor to have access to and use such infrastructures throughout the
duration of the Project;

-

GAC SA has decided to implement, in accordance with the Basic Agreement and this
Infrastructure Agreement, the Additional Infrastructures and Installations (as hereinafter
defined) which will take into account the technical elements of the original design of the
Existing Infrastructures (as hereinafter defined);

-

The Parties have agreed that should it be required in order to achieve the Project to build
additional infrastructure, the State will grant to the Investor all the necessary rights,
guaranties and land and sign all necessary agreements to that effect;

-

In that context, the Investor has indicated that it wishes to build and equip a container
terminal in the form of a New Commercial Dock (as hereinafter defined) capable of
receiving ships and heavy and large scale equipment for the purpose of the Project
Activities.

-

Pursuant to the Basic Agreement, in particular its article 11, the Parties have met to specify
the practical and logistical conditions for to the construction, use and access thus granted
by the State to GAC SA and the applicable terms for the financing, the implementation and
the use of the infrastructures constructed in accordance with the terms of the Basic
Agreement, it being specified that this Infrastructure Agreement completed in accordance
with the terms and conditions herein by the Operations Agreement (as hereinafter defined)
shall form together all of the contractual provisions defined as the “Infrastructure
Agreement” in the Basic Agreement.

3

NOW, THEREFORE,
THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
TITLE I
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Infrastructure Agreement, the capitalised terms used in this Infrastructure
Agreement shall have the meaning given to them thereafter; in the event of a contradiction between the
definitions contained in this Agreement and those contained in the Basic Agreement, the latter shall
prevail:
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement dated 13 June 1996 by which the State and ANAIM
granted to Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée the Existing Infrastructures.
"Port Agreement" means the agreement between the State and GAC SA describing the rights granted
to GAC SA to certain port installations at the port of Kamsar, the alumina carrier dock, the commercial
dock and the storage area that is to be constructed by GAC SA and/or its Affiliates.
"Project Activities" has the meaning given in the Basic Agreement.
"Affiliate" means any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls or is controlled by GAC SA, or which is
under joint control, directly or indirectly, with GAC SA. For the purpose of this definition, the term
"control" (together with the terms "controlled by" or "under joint control with") shall mean the direct or
indirect possession of the power to take or cause to take the decisions of management of such entity.
"ANAIM" means Agence Nationale d’Aménagement des Infrastructures Minières de Guinée, which in
the past has acted and continues to act on behalf of the State, or any other structure of the State which
may act on behalf of the State and in its name for the purpose of this Agreement, as it is the case for
ANAIM, it being specified that the State shall cause (porte-fort) the obligations undertaken by ANAIM
pursuant to this Infrastructure Agreement.
"Annexes" means the annexes to this Infrastructure Agreement of which they are an integral part.
"Anomalies" means any defect preventing or likely to prevent a normal use of the Existing
Infrastructures or the Additional Infrastructures and Installations or making their use dangerous for
property or for persons.
"Authorisation" has the meaning given in the Basic Agreement.
"Lenders" means the financial institutions which will finance the construction of the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations.
"Successor Beneficiary" means any company which might become, on any basis whatsoever, in whole
or in part, the successor to the Concessionaire for the purposes of the infrastructures, rights and
obligations of the Concession Agreement, and the appointment of which must be approved by GAC SA,
in particular in order to ensure it meets the technical competence and human and financial resources
required to perform its obligations.

4

"Schedule of Specifications" means the "Schedule of Specifications" annexed to the Concession
Agreement.
"CBG" means the Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée, which carries out the bauxite mining operations
in Sangaredi and surrounding zones and which is using the Existing Infrastructure.
"Port Charges" means the sums due by every ship entering the port of Kamsar for services, costs,
royalties, rights and other charges relating to services provided in the port as specified hereinafter. Port
Charges correspond and will correspond for the duration of this Agreement, to the rights usually
charged in ports of the same type as Kamsar for services of equivalent quality and safety and for
products of the same nature. In any event, their amount shall be equivalent to the amounts paid by the
other ships, entering the port of Kamsar and in particular those paid by CBG or its customers in
Kamsar.
Port Charges are enumerated in Annex 3 G.
"Channel" means the access channel from the Atlantic Ocean to the port of Kamsar with an
approximate total length of 17 km and a width of 120 meters, which could extended up to 200 meters,
on the Rio-Nunez.
"Technical Committee" means the committee whose composition, mission and operation are defined in
article 2 of the Operations Agreement and referred to in Annex 3 F.
"New Commercial Dock Account" has the meaning given in Article 6.3(a).
"Escrow Account" means the bank account where the Channel maintenance royalty, which is included
in the Port Charges, along with a part of the Port Royalty as per article 7.3(b) of the Operations
Agreement shall be paid; which shall be opened by the Parties in order to ensure the maintenance of
the Channel for the duration of this Operations Agreement, and the operation of which account shall
require the approval of all the Parties under a procedure to be defined by the Parties for that purpose.
"Special Account" mans the bank account referred to in Article 18 which should be created and
managed in accordance with Article 18.
"Concessionaire" means the Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée (CBG), acting on the date of this
Infrastructure Agreement as the beneficiary of the concession on the Existing Infrastructures under the
terms of the Concession Agreement, as well as any Successor Beneficiary to the concession in relation
to the Existing Infrastructures and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations.
"Operations Agreement" means the operations agreement concluded between the State/ANAIM, GAC
Ltd, GAC SA and the Concessionaire.
"Basic Agreement" shall have the meaning which is given to it in the recitals of this Infrastructure
Agreement.
"Date of Commercial Production Start-up" has the meaning given in the Basic Agreement.
"Effective Date" means the effective date of the Operations Agreement.

5

"New Commercial Dock Zone" means the zone made available to GAC SA by the State to build the
New Commercial Dock as well as its possible expansions, the coordinates of which are detailed in
Annex 3 D.
"Expansions" has the meaning given in the Basic Agreement.
"Common Infrastructures" means the Existing Infrastructures and those of the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations used by GAC SA and CBG, whose management and operation are
granted to the Concessionaire pursuant to the Operations Agreement, it being specified that the
Domestic Infrastructures are not Common Infrastructures.
"Domestic Infrastructures" means the railway sectors in the zones of the Sangarédi plant and in the
Kamsar industrial zone, the connection of the Main Railway Line to the Kamsar industrial zone, as
described in Annex 3 A of this Agreement.
"Existing Infrastructures" means the infrastructures defined in Article 2 of this Agreement.
"Additional Infrastructures and Installations" means the additional developments and constructions
to be built as set out in Article 5, it being specified that (with the exception of the spur in the Main
Railway Line which regime is defined in article 11.3(ii) of the Basic Agreement) the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations are improvements to the Existing Infrastructures and are not additional
infrastructures in the sense of article 11 of the Basic Agreement.
"Main Railway Line" means the railway line to be used in common, as described in Title III.
"New Commercial Dock" means the dock to be built close to the French Dock, referred to in Article 6.
"Project" has the meaning given in the Recitals of this Infrastructure Agreement.
"Construction Phase" means the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the last day of
the twelfth calendar month following the Date of Commercial Production Start-up.
"French Dock" means the dock for the unloading of goods (general freight) of a length of 120 meters
with a tract of asphalt of about 100 meters by 50 meters and with a crane (Derrick) of a nominal
capacity of about 100 tonnes at 15 metres.
"Italian Dock" means the landing dock located near the French Dock.
"Port Royalty" means the wharfage fees (also called “Quai Maxima”) due by the ships. They
correspond, and throughout the duration of this Agreement they will correspond, to the rights usually
charged in ports of the same type as Kamsar and, in any event, they shall be of an equivalent amount
with respect to the Quai Maxima for each type of products and services as those paid by other ships
docking at the Port of Kamsar and in particular those paid by the ships chartered by CBG or its
customers.
"Rules of the Art" means all the norms of quality, longevity and safety usually accepted and applied by
professionals for the requirements of the construction, use, operation and/or management of
infrastructures of the same type and same purpose as those referred to in this Infrastructure
Agreement.

6

"Debt Service" means the reimbursements, payments and financial amortizations to be made by GAC
Ltd and/or GAC SA and/or the State in relation with all the sums at their disposal, whether as their
shareholders and/or Affiliates’ equity, or as financings from the Lenders for the purposes of the
completion of the works and infrastructures hereto, including the interests, charges, commissions in
relation with these financings and the remuneration of the capital.
"Rail Signaling and Communication" means the fixed signaling with traffic lights at the entrance or
inside a zone and/or of a district and the various radio-communications (and radar) which indicate the
running order for trains, locomotives and vehicles, and regulate the running order of the itinerary to be
followed.
"Maritime Signaling and Communication" means the signaling and communication systems (system
of illuminated buoys, beacons, VHF stations / radio screens) at entry / exit and along the Channel which
indicate the access to the various docks of the port of Kamsar.
"Direct Sub-Contractors" has the meaning given to it in the Basic Agreement, as specified in the
Accounting & Tax Exhibit (as this term is defined in the Basic Agreement).
"Users" means any major user (including CBG and GAC SA) of the Existing Infrastructures and the
Additional Infrastructures and Installations.
"Lay-down Zone" means the land which the State and ANAIM put at the GAC SA’s disposal for its
exclusive use during the Construction Phase and in case of Expansion and which coordinates are
defined in Annex 3 D.
TITLE II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Infrastructure Agreement is to specify (i) the conditions and methods of design,
financing, construction and management of expansions and improvements of the Existing
Infrastructures for their use in common by CBG and GAC SA; (ii) the rights granted to GAC SA by the
State concerning the Existing Infrastructures, the Additional Infrastructures and Installations, including
the Channel, in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Agreement; (iii) the concession granted by
the State to GAC SA of the right to design, develop, build, finance, operate and maintain the New
Commercial Dock and to carry out its activities on the New Commercial Dock in accordance with the
provisions set out in this Infrastructure Agreement, and (iv) the obligations of GAC SA in this respect.

7

TITLE III
INFRASTRUCTURES
ARTICLE 2: EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURES
The Existing Infrastructures include:
(i)

The Railway Line
-

the Main Railway Line, as described with all its installations in Annex 3 B hereafter,

-

the passing tracks,

-

the crossing constructions,

-

the stations, the level crossings,

-

the signaling and communication,

-

the rail installations,

(ii)

The Channel;

(iii)

The French Dock;

(iv)

The Italian Dock.

The technical aspects of the Existing Infrastructures are provided in Annex 3 B.
ARTICLE 3: STATE OF THE EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURES
3.1 Within a maximum of ninety (90) days following the Effective Date of this Agreement, ANAIM
shall transmit to GAC SA a complete and detailed technical report providing the state of operation and
maintenance of the Existing Infrastructures prepared by an independent expert jointly chosen by
ANAIM and the Concessionaire, the costs of the expertise being borne by ANAIM.
3.2 If this report shows that the Existing Infrastructures have Anomalies, the State, through ANAIM,
undertakes to have these Anomalies repaired by the Concessionaire or by any third Parties of its choice
having the experience and competence required for this purpose in application of all the applicable
provisions of the Concession Agreement and of all the measures authorised by the law.
These repairs will be carried out within a reasonable timeframe and in any event within six months prior
to the date of the beginning of the alumina production; GAC SA shall inform the Concessionaire and
ANAIM of this commencement date.
When the repairs have been completed as described above, ANAIM shall transmit to GAC SA a new
report certifying that the observed Anomalies have been corrected satisfactorily and that the Existing
Infrastructures are in compliance with the Rules of the Art and can be operated without Anomalies.
3.3

GAC SA may, at its own expense, have these reports examined by any expert of its choice.

8

3.4 If, for any reason whatsoever, ANAIM were not able to undertake or cause to be undertaken
certain repair works referred in Article 3.2, GAC SA shall have the right to undertake such work and if
GAC SA decides to undertake such work in accordance with the Rules of the Art, GAC SA shall act with
the full cooperation, collaboration and agreement of ANAIM and the State. GAC SA shall act in such
event as an agent and at the expense of ANAIM so that GAC SA’s liability shall not be engaged, this
being without prejudice to any action which the ANAIM and/or the State could bring against the
Concessionaire in this respect. ANAIM shall fully participate to the works and, in particular, to the
reception of the works.
The costs supported by GAC SA on this occasion shall be repaid by ANAIM and the State to GAC SA
in accordance with the provisions of Article 19 hereof.
The possible intervention by GAC SA in accordance with the present Article 3.4 shall not be interpreted
as reducing or settling the consequences resulting from the breach by the Concessionaire of its
obligations in terms of maintenance, repair and/or fixing of Anomalies or the rights of ANAIM resulting
from such breach.
3.5 The State and ANAIM guarantee to GAC SA that the latter shall not be subject to claims by any
person or entity whatsoever, on whatever basis, due to the state of Existing Infrastructures or
maintenance, repair and fixing work performed as a result of the technical report or for any other matter
existing or resulting from causes occurring prior to the date of use by GAC SA of the Existing
Infrastructures for the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE 4: MAIN RAILWAY LINE
4.1

The Main Railway Line has the following characteristics:
-

Normal track

1435 mm

-

UIC-60 and 136 RE rail 60.30kg/m (Marshalling Yards at Kamsar and Sangarédi)
and 67.39kg/m (Mail Railway Line)

-

Metal sleepers

1700/Km

-

Doleritic ballast

35 cm

-

Type K fastener (adjusting clips)

-

Maximum axle load

-

Basic declivity:

C65 and C75
27.5T/axle

-

In the direction of loaded trains

5°/°°

-

In the direction of empty trains

15°/°°

-

Minimum radius

-

Vertical curve radius

10,000 m

-

Length of main track

136.7 Km

-

Number of passing tracks
-

Kolaboui

-

Boké

500 m

4
150 m
1700 m

9

-

Tanènè

1700 m

-

Gobiré

1700 m

-

Number of Marshalling Yards

(3)

-

Elevation tolerance (+) (-) 3mm in curve or in alignment

-

Speed of mineral trains

60 Km/h

-

Speed of passenger trains

70 Km/h

Slopes and ramps are limited to 5°/°° in the direction from the Mine to the Port and 20°/°° and in the
direction from the Port to the Mine. They are not compensated.
-

Compensation

0.04% (1.745.38)/R

-

Banking

-

Rails (main track)

136RE

-

UIC type sleepers

77kgs

-

Junctions

maximum banking 86mm

Tg 0.11

ANAIM shall take all necessary measures vis-à-vis GAC SA to ensure that the track parameters
correspond to the construction characteristics, both according to plan and profile, and comply with the
maximum load of 27.5 tonnes per axle or the maximum load recorded upon reception of the
rehabilitation work.
The new rails installed must be checked using ultrasound or any other method in accordance with the
Rules of the Art and approved by ANAIM, for recording of the data on the entire length at a frequency
accepted as Rules of the Art and more frequently if the conditions of use so justify and upon
recommendation of the Technical Committee.
Every improvement or expansion of the Main Railway Line must have technical characteristics
conforming with the Existing Infrastructures as defined in the Schedule of Specifications and as
indicated above:
4.2

Use:

In the event that ANAIM wishes to increase the use of the Common Infrastructures for the activities of
other companies, in particular mining companies, wishing to establish themselves in the region of Boké,
GAC SA, as user, shall accept at the request of ANAIM to define the technical conditions for such
increase and use of these installations, provided that the works relating to the increase and the use by
third parties do not affect the normal functioning of GAC SA or the conditions of use of these
infrastructures by each of these companies. A similar provision is applying to the Concessionaire under
the Operations Agreement.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25 of this Infrastructure Agreement, It is
understood that as regards to the Existing Infrastructures and the Additional Infrastructures and
Installations used in common, the following priority will apply:
-

first, to CBG in accordance with article 8 of the Concession Agreement, and also to its
bauxite activities in relation to a CBG Refinery (as defined hereunder);
10

-

second, to GAC SA within the scope of the transportation of its intrants and of the export
of its alumina production for the entire duration of the Project.

For the purpose of the rules above, “CBG Refinery” means any alumina refinery owned by, and under
complete control of, CBG.
Moreover:
•

If, as a result of the extensions of CBG’s activities, including without limitation the
construction of a CBG Refinery, CBG’s capacity needs would increase beyond (i) the
Attributed Capacity as of the Effective Date, which is, for the purpose of this Infrastructure
Agreement, as set forth in section 2 of Annex 3 I and (ii) after the investment of GAC SA
as contemplated in section 3 of Annex 3 I, the capacity allocated to it pursuant to such
section 3, CBG shall have the obligation to create the additional capacity required by such
extensions and to bear the costs of the infrastructure built to that effect.

•

GAC SA shall have the obligation to create any additional capacity above the Attributed
Capacity as of the Effective Date required as a result of GAC SA’s activities’, including
without limitation the Project and any extensions thereof, and to bear the costs of the
infrastructure built to that effect. In this respect, after the investment of GAC SA as
contemplated in section 3 of Annex 3 I, GAC SA’s allocated capacity is as set forth in such
section 3.

•

Notwithstanding the above, if, as a result of CBG’s activities, CBG’s capacity needs would
decrease below the Attributed Capacity as of the Effective Date as set out above, CBG
shall have the right to make available its remaining capacity to a third party User, in
agreement with ANAIM, in which case, such third party User shall not benefit from CBG’s
first priority.

•

These provisions do not affect those specifically provided for the New Commercial Dock.

•

The rules regarding day-to-day use of the Existing Infrastructure and Additional
Infrastructures and Installations are defined in Articles 8 and 10 of this Agreement.

•

In the event that capacity on the Existing Infrastructure and Additional Infrastructures and
Installations used in common has to be rationed due to the necessity to undertake
maintenance, effect repairs, or respond to some other system constraint that may occur
from time to time, such rationing for each User shall be made pro-rata based upon the
programme agreed upon pursuant to the provisions of Articles 8.3 and 10.2.

4.3 It is agreed that the capacity that may be made available to third parties contemplated in
paragraph 4.2 above shall not limit the capacity already made available to GAC SA or to CBG or to
another user. It is agreed that all costs generated by the work for the creation of additional capacity to
accommodate the needs of such third parties and by the use by these third parties shall be paid by
such third parties or by the State.
4.4 Taking into account the demographic pressure in the industrial zone of Kamsar, any connection
to the Main Railway Line which would cause the railway line to be doubled in the town zones must be
protected by any appropriate means for the safety of the population.

11

4.5

All stations and crossing points shall also be protected by enclosures.

4.6 GAC SA's rolling stock that will be used on the Main Railway Line shall have technical
characteristics that are compatible with those of the rolling stock currently used by CBG and shall be
compliant with technical specifications of the Main Railway Line.
4.7 In addition, if GAC SA desires to operate its rolling stock or entrust the operation of its rolling
stock to a Direct Sub-Contractor other than CBG, a special agreement shall be established between the
Concessionaire, GAC SA and/or such Direct Sub-Contractor, as the case may be, which the State
guarantees.
In such event, GAC SA or its Direct Sub-Contractor’s train drivers shall be trained and certified by the
Concessionaire in accordance with the standards developed by the Concessionaire in compliance with
the railway operating rules and shall comply with the operating instructions provided by the
Concessionaire.
The Concessionaire may, in conjunction with GAC SA, inspect the rolling stock and/or audit its
maintenance to determine compliance with the Rules of the Art and to attempt to prevent damage to the
Main Railway Line. Such inspection/audits will not unreasonably disrupt the operations of GAC SA,
which ANAIM guarantees. All inspection and audit reports will be shared between the Parties.
ARTICLE 5: ADDITIONAL INFRASTRUCTURES AND INSTALLATIONS
5.1

The Additional Infrastructures and Installations include:
-

the developments and constructions on the Main Railway Line, at the junction point PK
104+900,

-

The connecting spur of the Main Railway Line starting at the junction point and leading to
the plant of Sangarédi, of a length of approximately 15 kilometres (which do not constitute
a Common Infrastructure),

-

the passing tracks,

-

the crossing constructions,

-

the level crossings,

-

the Rail Signaling and Communication,

-

the Maritime Signaling and Communication

-

the public security works,

-

the Channel improvements,

-

the New Commercial Dock.

The technical aspects of Additional Infrastructures and Installations are provided in Annex 3 C.
5.2 The plans for development and construction as well as the costs and the time frame to construct
the Additional Infrastructures and Installations (taking into account the freight of CBG) must be
communicated by GAC SA to ANAIM to be transmitted to the Concessionaire on the Effective Date.
The State undertakes that the Concessionaire shall submit a technical report to the Technical
Committee within three (3) months. The Technical Committee will review it for the purpose of adopting it
12

within one (1) month. After adoption, these plans for the construction of the Additional Infrastructures
and Installations shall constitute the final Annex 3 C, which shall be an integral part of this Agreement.
5.3 GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd or, as the case may be, the State, shall finance the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations (with the exception of the Maritime Signaling and Communication
whose financing is provided for in Article 11). GAC SA shall build or have built the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations.
ARTICLE 6: NEW COMMERCIAL DOCK
6.1

Construction of the New Commercial Dock:

a)
The State has granted to GAC SA the right to develop (in one or more phases), to design, to
build, to finance and to operate the New Commercial Dock in the Port of Kamsar zone and to carry out
its port activities on this New Commercial Dock under the terms and conditions specified in this
Infrastructure Agreement.
b) To the extent required, the Direct Sub-Contractors of GAC SA will benefit with respect to the New
Commercial Dock from the same rights as those granted to GAC SA under the Basic Agreement and
this Agreement.
c)
The State shall be the owner of the New Commercial Dock and of the fixed equipments, subject
to the rights granted to GAC SA under this Infrastructure Agreement.
d) The Parties confirm that GAC SA benefits from an exclusive right of access to and use of the
Lay-down Zone during the Construction Phase and every Expansion. GAC SA will have access to the
French Dock, provided this use will respect the use of this dock by CBG and according to the conditions
specified in Article 12 below.
The technical specifications of the New Commercial Dock and of the construction programme are
e)
set out in Annex 3 D.
f)
GAC SA will provide ANAIM with the development and construction plans as well as the costs
and schedules of construction the New Commercial Dock, as from the Effective Date, in their versions
available on this date.
6.2

Conditions of Use:

a)

Construction Phase:

During the Construction Phase, rights granted to GAC SA are of an exclusive nature and include the
right to access and use without restriction the New Commercial Dock Zone and its equipments and the
Lay-down Zone for the needs of the Project.
b)

Operation Phase:

The Parties have agreed that at the expiration of the Construction Phase, the rights from which GAC
SA then benefits with respect to the New Commercial Dock will become non-exclusive, but that GAC
SA will benefit from a priority right of access and use, provided however that in case of Expansion(s),
as defined under the Basic Agreement, this priority right will automatically become for each Expansion
13

an exclusive right between the date of the commencement of works of such Expansion until the date of
final acceptance of the aforementioned Expansion.
Accordingly, GAC SA will conform to the rules and procedures in force in the Port of Kamsar regarding
the use of the New Commercial Dock.
It is understood that the State shall ensure that the Concessionaire will take into account the ships
chartered by GAC SA, its Direct Sub-Contractors and its customers in its operating programme for the
New Commercial Dock and the Port Charges and Port Royalties shall be identical to those applied to
all other ships docking at the New Commercial Dock.
GAC SA shall inform the State and ANAIM of any definitive decision to proceed with an Expansion
sufficiently in advance (at least twelve months before the beginning of the works) so that the State does
not take any commitments vis-à-vis third parties in respect of the New Commercial Dock which would
risk to affect the exclusivity guaranteed by the State.
GAC SA and the ANAIM will define in common agreement the modalities of use and maintenance for
the period during which the rights of use by GAC SA are not exclusive, respecting the priority access
and use mentioned above.
6.3. Port Royalty:
a)
The State warrants to GAC SA that it will take all measures so that any Port Royalty paid by the
users of the New Commercial Dock is directly paid into an account specially opened by GAC SA, and
the State shall bear all costs, charges and interest due in the event of delays or non-remittance of the
required sums (the “New Commercial Dock Account”), until the full repayment of the Debt Service of
GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd.
The opening and the terms for the operation of this New Commercial Dock Account will be defined in an
agreement between ANAIM and GAC SA.
b) GAC SA will be responsible for the allocation of the Port Royalty paid to the New Commercial
Dock Account to ensure the full repayment of the financing subscribed for the construction of the New
Commercial Dock as follows:
•

70% Debt Service of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd related to the New Commercial Dock;

•

20% State;

•

10% Escrow Account.

These percentages could be adjusted by the State and GAC SA to take into account the variations of
the Port Royalty.
These percentages shall, if necessary, be adjusted by mutual agreement between the State and GAC
SA to take into account the maintenance requirements of the New Commercial Dock.
c)
After full payment of the Debt Service of GAC SA or/and GAC Ltd and subject to the provisions of
paragraph (d) below, the New Commercial Dock Account will be closed and Port Royalty will be
allocated as follows:

14

•

State 70%;

•

Escrow Account 30%.

GAC SA shall provide the State with proof of the investments made for the construction.
These percentages shall, if necessary, be adjusted by mutual agreement between the State and GAC
SA to take into account the maintenance requirements of the New Commercial Dock.
6.4

Port Charges:

Any ship docking at the New Commercial Dock will have to pay to the port authorities of the port of
Kamsar, the Port Charges in accordance with procedures set out in this respect at the port of Kamsar.
6.5

Use and maintenance:

a)
During the Construction Phase of its plant, GAC SA shall ensure the operation and maintenance
of the New Commercial Dock and will have access for such maintenance and repair requirements to
the Escrow Account. GAC SA will establish, with ANAIM’s agreement, an annual forecast budget and
will inform ANAIM of its implementation on a quarterly basis.
b) During any Expansion phase of its plant, GAC SA will benefit from an exclusive and unrestricted
right of access and use of the New Commercial Dock, its equipments and the Lay-down Zone. ANAIM
and the Concessionaire will ensure the maintenance and the operation of the New Commercial Dock
and of its fixed equipments with the funds in the Escrow Account in order that the New Commercial
Dock and its equipments are always in a good state of use. These provisions will not affect the terms
for the allocation of the Port Royalty as provided in Article 6.3 of this Infrastructure Agreement.
c)
At the end of the Construction Phase and/or any new Expansion phase, ANAIM and the
Concessionaire will ensure the operation of the New Commercial Dock and of its fixed equipments as
well as its maintenance with the funds in the Escrow Account in order that the New Commercial Dock
and its equipments are always in a good state of use. These provisions will not affect the terms for the
allocation of the Port Royalty as provided in Article 6.3 of this Infrastructure Agreement.
The terms for the use of the Escrow Account intended for the maintenance will be defined as soon as
possible by ANAIM, the State, the Concessionaire and GAC SA, within the Technical Committee.
The maintenance of the New Commercial Dock shall be exclusively ensured by the funds available in
the Escrow Account resulting from the collection of Port Royalties paid by the users of the New
Commercial Dock.
The State shall take all necessary steps so as to ensure that sufficient funds are therefore made
available to the Party responsible for such maintenance to ensure the correct performance of the
maintenance.
ARTICLE 7: DOMESTIC INFRASTRUCTURES
The Domestic Infrastructures are those located in the Industrial Zone and in the Port Area granted to
the benefit of GAC SA in Kamsar and Sangarédi, as per the Basic Agreement. The plans and general
specifications of these are set forth in Annex 3 A.

15

The design, financing and construction of the Domestic Infrastructures are under the entire
responsibility of GAC SA pursuant to the Project.
The Domestic Infrastructures are and will remain the full and entire property of GAC SA, which has the
exclusive use of them.
The financing and repayment conditions of all design, development and construction expenses are
defined in the Basic Agreement.
TITLE IV
PROVISIONS SPECIFIC TO THE INFRASTRUCTURES
ARTICLE 8: THE MAIN RAILWAY LINE
The use of the Main Railway Line (including the Rail Signaling and Communication) will take into
account the freight requirements of CBG and GAC SA.
8.1

Period of expansion and improvement of Existing Infrastructures:

GAC SA shall provide ANAIM with a draft schedule for the construction of the Additional Infrastructures
and Installations and ANAIM will then transmit it to the Concessionaire in accordance with the
provisions of Article 5.2 above.
8.2

Period of construction of the plant:

Every quarter, GAC SA shall provide ANAIM with the programme of the equipment and intrants that
GAC SA wishes to transport by train from Kamsar to Sangarédi, ANAIM will then transmit it to the
Concessionaire. ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire will propose a programme of transport for
implementation answering to the needs of GAC SA and will define the terms for its implementation with
GAC SA.
8.3

Period of operation of the plant:

GAC SA shall annually provide ANAIM with GAC SA’s train movement programme, ANAIM will then
transmit it to the Concessionaire. Each programme shall be provided three (3) months before the
beginning of the following year and will be detailed each quarter and each month.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire submits a draft of the general operating programme,
incorporating the programme submitted by GAC SA and all other Users (if access is granted to them
under the conditions set forth in Article 4.2), as well as all maintenance and renewal schedules, and
transmits it to the Technical Committee one (1) month prior to the beginning of the following year with
the detail of all trains movements.
The Technical Committee shall meet to review the draft programme in order to adopt it by consensus.
The general operation annual programme adopted by the Technical Committee as indicated above
shall be the basis of the monthly, weekly, and daily programming issued by the Concessionaire, in
conformity with the Operating rules set out in Annex 3 E and taking into account the reasonable
16

opinions and needs of each User. These programmes will reflect the actual available capacity and
allocate slots to each User in proportion to their respective attributed capacity.
Any modification to the programmes adopted as above shall also be made by consensus with the
relevant User, it being specified that this consensus rule does not apply to emergency situations and
out-of-course events. For the purposes of this Article, “out-of-course events” shall mean any event
happening on the Main Railway Line and Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it, which
is unforeseen and beyond the reasonable control of the Concessionaire. In such instance, ANAIM and
the State shall ensure that the Concessionaire makes then its commercially reasonable efforts to inform
and consult with the affected User(s). ANAIM and the State shall ensure that the Concessionaire uses
its commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the disruption suffered with respect to each such event
and restore the normal service pattern as quickly as possible.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25, in the case of breach of this programme by the
Concessionaire, the State undertakes to enforce the provisions of the Concession Agreement and to
take all other legal measures necessary in order to ensure the correct implementation of the
programme of GAC SA.
In the case of particular circumstances affecting the initial programme, GAC SA will request an
adjustment to the programme to the Concessionaire and ANAIM and the State shall ensure that they
will take to the fullest extent possible all measures necessary to deal with such particular
circumstances.
In the case of particular circumstances affecting the initial programme, ANAIM will request an
adjustment to the programme to the Concessionaire, and the State shall ensure that they will take to
the fullest extent possible all measures necessary to deal with such particular circumstances.
ARTICLE 9: IMPROVEMENT OF RAIL SIGNALING AND COMMUNICATION
9.1

Rail Signaling and Communication Equipment:

GAC SA will transmit to ANAIM, which will transmit to the Concessionaire, the draft programme of
completion of the improvements to the Rail Signaling and Communication in order to adapt it to modern
technology.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire will submit a technical report to the Technical Committee
within three (3) months from the date of receipt of the programme by the Concessionaire.
The Technical Committee will meet to review the programme with a view to adopt it by consensus. In
this respect, ANAIM undertake not to withhold their consent to GAC SA’s program without a legitimate
motivation, duly justified from a technical and/or financial point of view, nor to subject their consent to
conditions which are not duly justified from a technical and/or financial point of view.
In the case of breach of the programme referred in the last paragraph by the Concessionaire, the State
undertakes to enforce the provisions of the Concession Agreement and all other legal measures
necessary in order to ensure the correct performance of GAC SA’s programme.
9.2 GAC SA shall have the right to set up, at its own cost, complementary or separate
telecommunication installations in order to meet its own needs. GAC SA shall ensure that the
characteristics of such installations are compatible with the existing ones.
17

GAC SA shall undertake the financing of these installations. The amounts invested by GAC SA shall be
repaid in accordance with the terms of Article 19.
9.3

Methods of use of Rail Signaling and Communication during the operation period:

The signaling and communication systems to be put in place shall be unified in order to secure and
ease the operation and maintenance.
The operation of the Rail Signaling and Communication shall be carried out by the Concessionaire, who
shall transmit to the Technical Committee the elements necessary for this operation.
9.4 The communication system on the Main Railway Line shall be centralized at the level of the
Concessionaire’s control tower. However, the communications in GAC SA and CBG’s marshalling
yards shall be managed by their own respective systems.
9.5 Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25 of this Agreement, the State shall take
all the necessary steps so that Rail Signaling and Communication services be implemented correctly to
enable the movements of the trains of GAC SA and of any other user in a safe manner for goods and
persons.
In addition, for the purposes of monitoring and daily management, in line with the best interests of GAC
SA, the State and ANAIM shall ensure that the Concessionaire:
•

maintains a permanent communication between the Concessionaire’s control facility and
GAC SA’s control facility. The mode of such communication shall be agreed by the
Concessionaire and GAC SA in accordance with the Rules of the Art; and

•

uses reasonable efforts to put into place for GAC SA a right of access to visit the
Concessionaire’s control facilities at any time.

ARTICLE 10: CHANNEL
10.1 Improvements:
GAC SA undertakes to construct a turning basin (as described in Annex 3 C).
GAC SA will transmit to ANAIM, which will transmit to the Concessionaire, the draft plans for the
completion of the turning basin, which is included in the Additional Infrastructures and Installations.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire will provide the Technical Committee with a technical report
within three (3) months, from the date of receipt of the draft plans by the Concessionaire.
Based on this report, the Technical Committee will approve a plan for the completion of the
improvements within three (3) months following the submission date of the Concessionaire’s report. In
this respect, ANAIM undertake not to withhold their consent to GAC SA’s program without a legitimate
motivation, duly justified from a technical and/or financial point of view, nor to subject their consent to
conditions which are not duly justified from a technical and/or financial point of view.
These plans for the construction of Additional Infrastructures and Installations shall constitute Annex
3 C, which shall be an integral part of this Agreement.
18

ANAIM will obtain all agreements of third parties and Authorisations which may be necessary to
complete these Additional Infrastructures and Installations and shall ensure that this plan is correctly
applied and in compliance with the agreed schedule.
It is agreed that GAC SA will inform ANAIM before undertaking these improvements in phase,
depending on the evolution of its needs.
10.2 Joint use of the Channel:
GAC SA will transmit to ANAIM that will transmit to the Concessionaire the annual programme of ship
movements prepared by GAC SA three (3) months before the beginning of the following year. This
programme shall be detailed quarterly and monthly.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire submits a draft of the programme for the general use of the
Channel, incorporating the draft programmes submitted by CBG, GAC SA and the other Users (if
access is granted to them under the conditions set forth in Article 4.2) and communicates it to the
Technical Committee one (1) month prior to the beginning of the following year.
The Technical Committee shall meet to review the draft programme in order to adopt it by consensus.
The general operation annual programme adopted by the Technical Committee as indicated above
shall be the basis of the monthly, weekly, and daily shipping programming issued by the
Concessionaire, in conformity with the Shipping protocols set out in Annex 3 E and taking into account
the reasonable opinions and needs of each User.
In the case of breach of this programme by the Concessionaire, ANAIM and the State undertake to
enforce the provisions of the Concession Agreement and, if necessary, any available legal measures in
order to ensure the correct implementation of the programme of GAC SA without delay, this without
prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25.
GAC SA will communicate, at least each week, an update of vessel nominations and anticipated vessel
arrival times along with any other information which may give rise to the need for an alteration to the
monthly, weekly, or daily shipping programme referred to above. ANAIM and the State shall ensure
that, each week, the Concessionaire, taking this information along with similar information in relation to
the CBG operations, or that of any other User, and in compliance with the capacity entitlements of GAC
SA as reflected in the programme adopted by the Technical Committee, will update and republish the
weekly and daily shipping programmes.
Any modification to the republished programme shall be made by consensus with the relevant User, it
being specified that this consensus rule does not apply to emergency situations and out-of-course
events. For the purposes of this Article, “out-of-course events” shall mean any event happening on the
Channel and Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it, which is unforeseen and beyond
the reasonable control of the Concessionaire. In such instance, ANAIM and the State shall ensure that
the Concessionaire makes then its commercially reasonable efforts to inform and consult with the
affected User(s). ANAIM and the State shall ensure that the Concessionaire uses its commercially
reasonable efforts to minimize the disruption suffered with respect to each such event and restore the
normal service pattern as quickly as possible.
In addition, for the purposes of monitoring and daily management, in line with the best interests of GAC
SA, the State and ANAIM shall ensure that the Concessionaire:
19

•

maintains a permanent communication between the Concessionaire’s control facility and
GAC SA’s control facility. The mode of such communication shall be agreed by the
Concessionaire and GAC SA in accordance with the Rules of the Art; and

•

uses reasonable efforts to put into place for GAC SA a right of access to visit the
Concessionaire’s control facilities at any time.

ARTICLE 11: IMPROVEMENT OF MARITIME SIGNALING
GAC SA will transmit to ANAIM, which transmit to the Concessionaire, a draft programme for the
improvement of the maritime signaling system describing GAC SA’s needs regarding the movements of
ships of GAC SA in the port of Kamsar.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire submits its technical report to the Technical Committee for
adoption within three (3) months of its communication. In this respect, ANAIM undertake not to withhold
their consent to GAC SA’s program without a legitimate motivation, duly justified from a technical and/or
financial point of view, nor to subject their consent to conditions which are not duly justified from a
technical and/or financial point of view.
After adoption, these construction plans shall constitute Annex 3 C, which shall be an integral part of
this Agreement.
The new equipments must be compatible with those of the existing system.
This improvement plan and its implementation shall be financed by the escrow account in place for the
maintenance of the Existing Infrastructures of the Kamsar Port (which, for the avoidance of doubt, is
different from the Escrow Account contemplated herein).
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25, ANAIM and the State shall ensure that these
improvement and completion plans shall be correctly implemented by the Concessionaire.
ARTICLE 12: FRENCH DOCK
The State grants to GAC SA the right to use the French Dock provided that such use will respect the
use of this dock by CBG.
To this effect, GAC SA shall submit to ANAIM the programmes of the chartered ships on the basis of
the works required for the Project.
The ships transporting freight for GAC SA to the French Dock shall pay the Port Royalty in force, as
applied to all users.

20

TITLE V
OPERATING - MAINTENANCE AND RENEWAL
ARTICLE 12 BIS: SHARED INFRASTRUCTURES
The State and ANAIM shall ensure that the operation of the Common Infrastructures by the
Concessionaire complies with (i) the Schedule of Specifications of the Concession Agreement; (ii) the
Rules of the Art; (iii) the principles set forth in Annex 3 E and (iv) the operating rules referred to in article
2.2 (c) of Annex 3 F.
ARTICLE 13: THE MAIN RAILWAY LINE
The State guarantees that the Concessionaire will ensure the maintenance and operation of Main
Railway Line in accordance with the Schedule of Specifications of the Concession Agreement and
Rules of the Art and shall cure without delay any Anomaly so as to allow continuous and secure use for
goods and persons.
GAC SA shall pay to the Concessionaire the amount set out in Article 18.2 to take its share of the
maintenance charges.
The Technical Committee will establish a meeting programme to review the maintenance budget.
The State guarantees to GAC SA that the rules for the use of the Main Railway Line correspond to
international standards that apply in such matter and that they shall apply to all users. A copy of such
procedure shall be delivered to GAC SA by ANAIM on the date of execution of this Agreement. GAC
SA agrees to comply with these rules.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire shall communicate on a yearly basis to the Technical
Committee the minutes made on the railway line and the related maintenance reports as soon as they
are available.
ANAIM will ensure that the Concessionaire shall communicate on a regular basis, the frequency of
which is to be determined by the Technical Committee, the status of the Main Railway Line and the
related maintenance programme to the Technical Committee.
GAC SA shall inform ANAIM of any Anomaly or defect which it may observe, in order for ANAIM to take
all necessary measures to repair or have repaired these Anomalies or defects without delay.
In order to enable the technical inspection and supervision of the installations, ANAIM shall take all
necessary measures so that the Concessionaire regularly transmits to the Technical Committee the
operation and maintenance programmes of the Existing Infrastructures and the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations such as:
•

Complete recording of the geometry of the track with analysis of the data.

•

The inspection reports for the civil engineering constructions and installations.

•

The statistical operation data and the periodic maintenance and inspection reports.

21

ARTICLE 14: THE RAIL SIGNALING AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
14.1 The State guarantees to GAC SA that the Concessionaire shall maintain the Rail Signaling and
Communication system in conformity with the Schedule of Specifications and the Rules of the Art in
order to ensure a continuous, regular and secure use, this without prejudice to the provisions of Articles
21 and 25.
14.2 No expansion of these installations shall prevent a good operating condition of the
communication system required for the satisfactory operation of GAC SA’s activities, and no expansion
shall be undertaken without the prior approval of the Technical Committee.
14.3 Depending on the evolution of technology in the electronics field, the radio equipment shall be
renewed following periodic technical expert analysis.
14.4 A regular and major inspection of the Rail Signaling and Communication system shall be
undertaken by an independent specialist company at the expense of the Concessionaire every five (5)
years - at the request of the Technical Committee - or more frequently, if the conditions so require.
ARTICLE 15: CHANNEL AND MARITIME SIGNALING AND COMMUNICATION
The operation and the maintenance of the Channel and of the Maritime Signaling and Communication
shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire in accordance with the Schedule of Specifications and
the Rules of the Art following a programme approved by the Technical Committee. ANAIM shall ensure
that it is perfectly implemented by the Concessionaire within the time frame approved by the Technical
Committee, this without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25.
Subject to the provisions of Articles 19 below, the Parties agree that an appropriate and sufficient
percentage of the additional royalty for the maintenance of the Channel (Annex 3 G) shall be used for
the maintenance of the Channel and the Maritime Signaling and Communication and kept in the Escrow
Account in order to ensure the maintenance of the Channel and the Maritime Signaling and
Communication and the remaining shall be used for large periodic major works.
ARTICLE 16: URGENT CASES
In the case of a severe accident affecting the Existing Infrastructures and/or the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations and which affects their continuous, regular and secure operation, the
State and ANAIM shall ensure that the Concessionaire shall immediately inform the Technical
Committee by any means, and the Concessionaire shall urgently undertake all necessary steps in order
to restore the continuous and secure service of such installations. The State and ANAIM shall ensure
that the Concessionaire develops and maintains a Rules of the Art emergency preparedness and
response plan, which will be reviewed and commented upon within the Technical Committee.
If the continuous, regular and secure service is not restored as soon as possible, the State and ANAIM
undertake to enforce the provisions of the Concession Agreement and to take all other legal measures
in order to ensure, without delay, the correct restoration of the continued, correct and secure operation
of such installations.
Each Party shall remain free to draw conclusions from these situations and take any legal and judicial
actions in order to protect its interests. The State and ANAIM shall cause the Concessionaire to

22

develop and maintain a Rules of the Art emergency preparedness and response plan, which will be
reviewed and commented upon within the Technical Committee.
ARTICLE 16 BIS: OPERATION
The Parties further agree as follows:
(i)

Each User shall utilize the Existing Infrastructures and the Additional Infrastructures and
Installations in a commercially reasonable manner taking into account appropriate
efficiencies;

(ii)

An appropriate level of designed redundancy shall be maintained with respect to the
Existing Infrastructures and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations for the term of
this Agreement. The Parties acknowledge that this redundancy is currently estimated to
be approximately twenty percent (20%) of the theoretical capacity, provided however that
such percentage shall be adjusted from time to time based on the Rules of the Art.

TITLE VI
RESPONSIBILITIES
ARTICLE 17: RESPONSIBILITY
17.1 Each Party, insofar as it is concerned, shall comply with the Infrastructure Agreement, and
comply with the decisions taken by the Technical Committee without prejudice to the right of GAC SA to
challenge these decisions and to protect its rights against any adverse consequence that could result
therefrom and without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 21 and 25 of this Infrastructure Agreement.
17.2 Each Party shall be responsible vis-à-vis the other for any breach of its obligations under this
Infrastructure Agreement.
17.3 The State shall transmit to GAC SA a copy of the Concessionaire’s insurance policies. GAC SA
shall take an insurance policy to cover the risks related to its activity in the context of this Agreement, in
coordination with the insurance policies taken by the Concessionaire.
TITLE VII
PRICING AND ROYALTIES - RIGHTS OF USE
ARTICLE 18: TARIFF
18.1 Rights of Use:
The tariff to be paid by GAC SA for the access to and the use of the Main Railway Line and the
Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it (including the Rail Signaling and
Communications) to be applied to GAC SA by the State shall be calculated on the basis of the principle
of proportion of the quantities transported as well as the length of the section of the Main Railway Line
effectively used by GAC SA, in relation to the royalty effectively paid by CBG under the Concession
23

Agreement (such royalty may potentially be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of such
Concession Agreement).
18.2 Track Service Charge:
GAC SA shall pay a pro rata allocation of the Track Service Charge (as defined below), which pro rata
allocation shall be calculated on the basis of the principle of proportion of the quantities transported as
well as the length of the section of the Main Railway Line and the Additional Infrastructures and
Installations related to it effectively used by GAC SA.
The quantities transported will be measured as follows:
•

In gross tonne-kilometres for all costs related to the track and roadway of the Main Railway
Line;

•

In train-kilometres for all costs related to Rail Signaling and Communications and train
control.

For the purposes of this Agreement, “Track Service Charges” shall mean the charge comprised of:
(i)

the direct cost of maintenance, repair and operation of the Main Railway Line and the
Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it; plus;

(ii)

the sum of depreciation and financing costs associated with the assets used in the
provision of these services; and

(iii)

a management fee derived by way of a composite overhead ratio comprising a hierarchy
of the various overhead ratios all developed by dividing each overhead category by the
costs of the related direct activities.

The direct cost of maintenance, repair and operations of the Main Railway Line and the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations related to it will comprise but not be limited to the cost of:
(i)

maintenance and repair of the Main Railway Line and the Additional Infrastructures
and Installations related to it ;

(ii)

train control and incident management;

(iii)

inspection, safety and security;

(iv)

any tax or other duty currently or in the future imposed upon Concessionaire by the
State in connection with the operation, repair and maintenance of the Main Railway
Line and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to them (including the
Rail Signaling and Communications), but expressly excluding the costs of CBG’s train
operations and the royalty paid by CBG under the Concession Agreement as well as
any tax, fee, royalty or other charge currently or in the future imposed upon
Concessionaire by the State in connection with the access or use of the Main Railway
Line and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to them (including the
Rail Signaling and Communications);

(v)

maintenance and repairs of the work equipment (rolling stock dedicated to track
maintenance and repair), roadway machines and other ancillary equipment;

(vi)

an appropriate hire charge in relation to the revenue rolling stock which is used in the
maintenance and repair activities; and
24

(vii)

the costs of material and infrastructure works which during the term of this Agreement
are charged to capital but are not captured under Article 18.3.

The Parties acknowledge the complexities associated with railway costing and in this regard agree that
where:
(i)

costs are directly incurred, or assets directly used, in the performance of services
and/or other activities related to the maintenance, repair and operations of the Main
Railway Line and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it (the
“Services”), those costs and assets should be directly identified and assigned;

(ii)

costs are incurred, or assets are used, in common with respect to the Services, and
where there is a causal relationship between the resources used and the Services,
these costs shall be attributed on a reasonable basis of cost causality; and

(iii)

assets, costs, and investments are used jointly for the provision of the Services, and
where there is no direct causal relationship between the resources used and the
Services, these costs shall be allocated on a reasonable basis.

Consistent with these principles, CBG will within two years of the execution of this Agreement prepare a
commercially reasonable costing manual which will include:
(i)

a chart of accounts identifying the direct costs, attributed costs and allocated costs,
along with the basis for their identification, attribution and allocation; and

(ii)

a register of assets to be used in the provision of the Services and their values.

The costing manual will be subject to the review and approval of GAC SA; provided that such approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Such costing manual shall also be subject
to further revision from time to time in accordance with the preceding process.
The costing manual will present the methods to be used in calculating the management fee. The
Parties may, however, agree on an allocation factor to be used for this purpose in lieu of the application
of the methods presented in the manual.
18.3 GAC SA shall pay a pro rata allocation for the Major Works Charges (as defined below) which
pro rata allocation shall be calculated in the manner set forth in Section 18.2.
For the purpose of this clause, “Major Works Charges” means the costs associated with the major
repair or renewal works relating to the Main Railway Line and the Additional Infrastructures and
Installations related to it (including the Rail Signaling and Communications) identified and agreed to in
the five year rolling plan prepared by the Concessionaire and approved by the Technical Committee.
For the purpose of the above provisions, the Concessionaire shall put in place a cost accounting
system based on the principles outlined for the costing manual in Article 18.2. GAC SA shall have
access to the accounting and financial elements of the Concessionaire related to the costs of
maintenance and major works for the purposes of confirmation and control. GAC SA shall have the
right to have these documents audited, at its own expense, by any certified accountant of its choice,
provided (i) any recipient of such documents and information shall execute a reasonably acceptable
confidentiality agreement; and (ii) a copy of such report(s) shall be provided to the Concessionaire.

25

18.4 Special Account:
The sums due by GAC SA pursuant to Article 18.1 should be paid in an account created by GAC SA for
this purpose (the “Special Account”) until the fill repayment of the debt service of GAC SA and/or GAC
SA in connection with the Additional Infrastructure and Installations related to the Main Railway Line
and the Rail Signaling and Communication.
The modalities of opening and use of this Special Account shall be defined in an agreement entered
into between ANAIM and GAC SA.
GAC SA will be responsible for the distribution of this tariff referred to in Article 18.1 to be paid into the
Special Account in order to ensure the full repayment of the financing obtained for the implementation
of the Additional Infrastructure and Installations related to the Main Railway Line and the Rail Signaling
and Communication.
•

90%

Debt Service of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd or, as the case may be, the debt service
of the State (Railway Line and Rail Signaling and Communication)

•

10%

State

Following the full repayment of the Debt Service of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd, this Special Account shall
be closed and the tariff referred to in Article 18.1 shall be integrally paid to the State.
18.5 Except for the payment of the tariff provided in Article 18.1 to ANAIM and the Track Service
Charge and Major Works Charges provided in Articles 18.2 and 18.3 to be paid to the Concessionaire,
GAC SA and/or its Direct Sub-Contractors and/or its service providers shall not have to pay any other
cost, charge, contribution, duty, expense or other charge (for access, use, maintenance, repair or for
any other cause whatsoever) concerning the access, use and services of the Main Railway Line and
Additional Infrastructures and Installations related to it.
18.6 With the exception of the payment of the Port Royalty and the Port Charges, GAC SA and/or its
Direct Sub-Contractors and/or its service providers and/or its customers shall not have to pay any other
cost, charge, contribution, duty, expense or other charge (for access, use, maintenance, repair or for
any other cause whatsoever) concerning the access, use and services of the port Existing
Infrastructures, port Additional Infrastructures and Installations (Alumina Dock, Channel, port
installations, including the Lay-down Zone and the New Commercial Dock).
The State has implemented an additional safety charge (ISPS) for any ship accessing or leaving the
Kamsar port; such charge will apply to all ships and its amount will be equivalent to the amount applied
in other ports of the type of Kamsar internationally.
18.7 The acceptation by GAC SA of the bearing of part of the costs related to the major woks pursuant
to Article 18.3 above is only valid for the duration of the Concession Agreement and as long as the
amount of the tariff for the access and use referred to in Article 18.1 remains unchanged. Should any of
these conditions not be any longer met, and in particular, in case of modification of the financial
conditions of the Concession Agreement or the execution of any agreement replacing the Concession
Agreement and having an impact on the tariff paid by GAC SA, the Parties shall meet to discuss the
evolution of the financial modalities of this Infrastructure Agreement, taking into consideration, in
particular, the amounts borne by GAC SA in relation to previous major works. Within this framework, a
new financing mechanism for major works may be put in place, providing for the financing of major
works by the users and the Concessionaire and the repayment of the debt by deduction from the tariff.
26

The previous tariff shall remain applicable as long as the Parties will not have determined the new
applicable conditions. The State and ANAIM confirm that GAC SA shall be involved in the process of
modification of the Concession Agreement and/or the execution of an agreement with a Successor
Beneficiary.
TITLE VIII
FINANCING
ARTICLE 19: FINANCING
19.1 GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd will ensure the financing, construction and implementation of the
Additional Infrastructures and Installations (with the exception of the Maritime Signaling and
Communication). ANAIM and/or the State has the right to propose to GAC SA to seek concessional
financing in order to finance the Additional Infrastructure and Installations works (provided that this does
not delay or affect the financing negotiated by GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd or its modalities and that this is
accepted by the Lenders).
The amounts invested by GAC SA and /or GAC Ltd (in equity or by financing obtained from the
Lenders) for the design, the implementation and the construction of the Additional Infrastructures and
Installations shall be reimbursed pursuant to the provisions of Article 19.4.
The State shall become the owner of the Additional Infrastructures and Installations in accordance with
the provisions of the Basic Agreement and the provisions herein.
19.2 The Additional Infrastructures and Installations which may be financed and constructed by GAC
SA are:
-

The Railway Line (Annex 3 C);

-

The Rail Signaling and Communication (Annex 3 C);

-

The Channel to access to the port (Annex 3 C);

-

The New Commercial Dock.

The Parties specify that the financing terms applying to the New Commercial Dock are provided in
Article 6 above.
19.3 Concessionnal rate financing:
As the Existing Infrastructures have been financed by concessionnal rate loans, the Parties agree to
use their best efforts to finance the Additional Infrastructures and Installations in the same manner.
GAC SA and /or GAC Ltd will make themselves available to participate actively in this process upon
request of the State vis-à-vis the lenders for the granting of concessional financing.

27

19.4: Financing by GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd:
If the State is not able to obtain concessionnal rate loans, GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd shall obtain the
required financing (in equity or by financing obtained from the Lenders); for that purpose the State
hereby grants the following guarantees to GAC SA and GAC Ltd:
a)
The State and ANAIM guarantee to GAC SA and GAC Ltd that all the financing obtained by GAC
SA and / or GAC Ltd to cover the design, development, implementation and construction of the
Additional Infrastructures and Installations (principal, interest and fees and related expenses) shall be
reimbursed, paid or amortized, as the case may be, including in the case of termination, cancellation or
non-renewal upon termination of this Infrastructure Agreement or the appointment of a new
Concessionaire.
b) The amounts so financed by GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd shall be fully reimbursed paid or
amortized, as the case may be, until the full repayment of these amounts, cumulatively by:
(i)

the payment into the Escrow Account of the additional royalty for the maintenance of the
Channel, which is included in the Port Charges paid by all ships chartered by GAC SA
accessing the port of Kamsar and those using the New Commercial Dock.
The State guarantees that 90% of this Additional Royalty shall be allocated to the Debt
Service of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd and shall be paid directly to GAC SA. The terms of
such payment shall be agreed upon by consensus between GAC SA and ANAIM.
After the full reimbursement of the Debt Service of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd, 90% of such
royalty shall be retained by the State, subject to the provisions relating to the Escrow
Account in respect of the maintenance of the Channel.

(ii)

the tariff provided for in Article 18.1, in accordance with Article 18.4.

If the financing is provided partially by GAC SA and partially by the State, the Parties will meet in order
to set out the adaptations to be made to the provisions above.
TITLE IX
FINAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 20: GENERAL TERMS
20.1 It shall be the responsibility of ANAIM to obtain any agreement or authorisation from any third
party as well as any Authorisation from any administration or port authority, including the
Concessionaire, in order to enable the application, within the contemplated time frame, of the provisions
of this Infrastructure Agreement.
20.2 The State grants GAC SA, if it wishes, the right to access to the Hospital of Kamsar for the
requirements of GAC SA’s needs and activities. An agreement will be signed for that purpose as soon
as GAC SA will so request.
20.3 In case of early termination of the Concession Agreement for whatever reason or its expiration,
the State, GAC SA and CBG will meet to establish a new model for the operation of infrastructures

28

which will include an efficient independent professional concessionaire which have all necessary
technical skills to complete its assignment successfully.
In case of early termination of the Concession Agreement for whatever reason or its expiration, the
State guarantees that the Successor Beneficiary shall be bound by the rights granted to GAC SA and
GAC Ltd under the Operations Agreement.
In any case, the State confirms that in all circumstances it guarantees to GAC SA the access to Existing
Infrastructures and to Additional Infrastructures and Installations in accordance with the provisions of
the Basic Agreement.
20.4 In the case of a contradiction between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Basic
Agreement, the latter will prevail. In the case of a contradiction between the provisions of this
Agreement and those of the Operations Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. This
Infrastructure Agreement does not create any right in favour of CBG, the Concessionaire or any other
Successor Beneficiary, and none of them may rely on it.
ARTICLE 21: GUARANTEE
If for any reason beyond its control, GAC SA is not able to obtain, through ANAIM, any Authorization
whatsoever or the approval of a third party within the deadlines and under the conditions validly or
contractually required, or it is not able to put in place a programme provided for herein within the
required deadlines, or does not have access to the Existing Infrastructures or to the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations or to the Channel on terms enabling it to carry out its activities as set
out in the Basic Agreement, GAC SA shall be entitled to request that ANAIM, by written notification,
remedy the situation in question.
It is specified that the development plan of the Project and the Project Activities within the framework of
the Basic Agreement, at the date of signature hereof, assumes for the first phase that the volume of
production (and of Intrants necessary to assure such production) to transport can reach, after
debottlenecking and optimization, up to 4 million tones of alumina per annum, with possible expansion
in latter stages for additional amounts. The right of access and use guaranteed by the State to GAC SA
under the Basic Agreement and this Infrastructure Agreement shall at all times be at a level which
corresponds to this assumption.
In the event that, for any reason, the situation referred in first paragraph of this Article is not definitively
remedied by ANAIM within a period of thirty (30) days following this notification, ANAIM itself shall
enforce without delay the contractual provisions set out to this effect in the Concession Agreement, and
undertake any other action available under the law against the third parties involved, including the
Concessionaire, so that the said situation is settled definitively and that the guaranties granted by the
State to GAC SA within the Basic Agreement are fully respected.
In the case of a disagreement of GAC SA with the Technical Committee or with the State and/or the
Concessionaire concerning the issues relating to the access, the use or the status or the maintenance
of the Existing Infrastructures, of the Additional Infrastructures and Installations and of the Channel.
ANAIM itself will apply without delay the contractual provisions provided to this effect in the Concession
Agreement as well as any other means or actions vis-à-vis concerned third parties (including the
Concessionaire) opened by the law so that such situations be definitively settled and the guaranties
given by the State to GAC SA in the Basic Agreement be fully respected. The disagreements between

29

the State and GAC SA shall be subject to the dispute resolution mechanism provided to this effect in
the Basic Agreement.
The State guarantees GAC SA and commits to indemnify GAC SA for any direct and indirect damages
and to reimburse GAC SA for any loss, expense and cost that it might bear or incur as a result of such
situations. This commitment shall not affect the obligations of the State relating to indemnification or
other rights to the benefit of GAC SA pursuant to the Basic Agreement.
Without prejudice of the right to the State to engage the liability of GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd for the noncompliance with its obligation under the Basic Agreement and/or this Infrastructure Agreement in the
conditions provided for in these agreements, it is understood that the State is not exonerated from its
obligations and undertakings vis-à-vis GAC SA under the Basic Agreement, this Infrastructure
Agreement and the Operations Agreement, including:
a)
for the reason of the existence of the Concession Agreement (as well as the basic agreement of
Harvey Alumina Company, as modified) and/or its various provisions and/or references to it (under this
Infrastructure Agreement and/or Operations Agreement), and/or;
b)

for the reason of:
(i)

The participation of GAC SA to the Operations Agreement; and/or

(ii)

The obligations provided therein for the benefit or against the Concessionaire and/or the
Technical Committee.

The provisions herein do not affect the rights of GAC SA vis-à-vis the State to obtain reparation of all
direct or indirect damages and reimbursement of all losses, costs and expenses which GAC SA would
be subjected to as a result of the conditions of access, use and maintenance affecting the Existing
Infrastructure or the Additional Infrastructures and Installations or the risks of GAC SA to its Direct SubContractors or its clients, of direct or indirect damages losses or additional costs.
Can be enforceable against GAC SA so as to limit the State liability under the Basic Agreement and this
Infrastructure Agreement, only a judgment or arbitral award settling a dispute arising out of the
Operations Agreement and which is in connection with a provision of the Operations Agreement which
has a link with this Infrastructure Agreement.
The provisions of the Concession Agreement do not create obligations for GAC SA outside those
provided for in the agreements between GAC SA and the State.
GAC SA undertakes to comply with its obligations with respect to and under the terms and conditions of
the Operations Agreement. In the event of any contradiction between the provisions of the Operations
Agreement and those of the Infrastructure Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
ANAIM shall take at all times all necessary measures to ensure that GAC SA can access and use the
Existing Infrastructures and the Additional Infrastructures and Installations and the Channel (including
the construction operations and the works related to the Additional Infrastructures and Installations) in
compliance with the provisions of the Basic Agreement.

30

If ANAIM cannot remedy the difficulties or the adverse conditions of access or operation or
maintenance affecting GAC SA concerning the Existing Infrastructures and the Additional
Infrastructures and Installations and/or the Channel, including in case of strikes of ANAIM or
Concessionaire staff or of situations affecting the normal or efficient operation of such Infrastructures or
in the case of Anomalies affecting the normal course and the security of the transports, ANAIM commits
to appoint without delay any third party professionals of its choice, having the required competence and
experience, whether temporarily or definitively, and at its own cost, in order to ensure a normal and
efficient access, use and maintenance by GAC SA and its Direct Sub-Contractors. If a third party
professional would not be appointed under these conditions, GAC SA will have the right to assure, until
the situation is reestablished, its own needs on transportation, through use of the Existing
Infrastructures, the Additional Infrastructures and Installations and/or the Channel or otherwise, at its
choice, either directly or by a third party professional appointed by GAC SA for this purpose, at its
choice. GAC SA shall have the same right in case of termination or expiry of the Concession
Agreement (Article 20.3 above).
In this regard, GAC SA’s inability to gain access to a utilization which is required for the Project shall be
considered as an inability for GAC SA to access the infrastructures, which shall be considered
according to, and for the purposes of, the Basic Agreement, to be caused by the State.
The State acknowledges that within the context of their financings, GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd shall have
to grant, in accordance with the Basic Agreement, rights to the Lenders, under which the Lenders may
directly or indirectly replace GAC SA and/or GAC Ltd in their rights and obligations under the Basic
Agreement. In this case, the State guarantees GAC SA that it shall ensure that the successor shall
benefit from the rights and obligations resulting from this Infrastructure Agreement and the Operations
Agreement, in accordance with the Basic Agreement.
The State guarantees to GAC SA and GAC Ltd the continuity of the rights and guarantees which are
granted to them under this Infrastructure Agreement and this, in particular, for the whole duration of the
Project and notwithstanding any mutation which could occur in CBG.
On its side, GAC SA undertakes vis-à-vis the State and ANAIM to comply with the obligations and fulfil
the guarantees for which it is responsible under this Infrastructure Agreement. GAC SA shall be liable
for the breach of its undertakings under the conditions provided in Article 17 here above. In particular,
GAC SA undertakes to comply with the Rules of the Art (including the safety and environmental
applicable rules) during the carrying out of the works planed in this Infrastructure Agreement, what the
State and ANAIM recognize and accept.
ARTICLE 22: DURATION
This Infrastructure Agreement is entered into for a duration starting on the Effective Date. In accordance
with article 11.1 of the Basic Agreement pursuant to which the State guarantees to GAC SA a right of
access and use of the Existing Infrastructure (including the Channel) for the whole duration of the Basic
Agreement as defined in article 34.2.1 of the Basic Agreement, this Infrastructure Agreement shall
remain in force with full effect for a duration equivalent to that of the Basic Agreement, whoever may be
the Concessionaire of the Common Infrastructures.

31

ARTICLE 23: ASSIGNMENT, SUBSTITUTION, NEW PARTY
GAC SA may assign, transfer, pledge or alienate, and transfer by any other means, its rights and
obligations under this Infrastructure Agreement to any Affiliated Company and to any entity for the
benefit of any Lender.
ARTICLE 24: SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES, APPLICABLE LAW, PAYMENT,
INTERESTS
It is noted that the provisions of the Basic Agreement for the settlement of disputes, regarding the
applicable law, “payment” (conditions of implementation of the decisions) of the payable interests, are
applicable to and incorporated in this Agreement, the State expressly waives its courts and execution
immunity right for itself and its properties for the purposes of any final decision or judgement to be taken
in this regard.
ARTICLE 25: INDEMNIFICATION
25.1 Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 21 above, the State guarantees GAC SA against all
direct and indirect damages, and shall indemnify it against all direct or indirect damage, loss, cost and
expense sustained or incurred by GAC SA in the event of a breach by ANAIM or by the State of the
provisions of this Infrastructure Agreement or in the event of an impossibility or delay incurred by GAC
SA in the setting-up of the work of design, construction, development or other actions set out by this
Agreement or provided in the Basic Agreement and its annexes and by this Agreement.
It shall be the responsibility of ANAIM or the State to initiate legal action against any third party which
might be liable in whole or in part for the situations giving entitlement to these indemnifications and
repayments to the benefit of GAC SA.
25.2 ANAIM and the State undertake to fully collaborate with GAC SA and to provide to it all
necessary assistance in the event of a claim by the Concessionaire or by any third party against GAC
SA as a result of the implementation and application of this Infrastructure Agreement in accordance
with its terms. Any cost, expense, charge, penalty and other expense incurred by GAC SA in this
respect shall be borne and/or reimbursed by ANAIM and/or the State.
The provisions of this Infrastructure Agreement shall not affect or limit in any way the provisions relating
to indemnification set out in the Basic Agreement for the benefit of GAC SA or those of article 19.1 of
the Basic Agreement (in its language provided by Amendment n°1).
ARTICLE 26: FORCE MAJEURE
The provisions of article 38 of the Basic Agreement shall apply as of right to the Parties in respect of
Force Majeure under this Infrastructure Agreement.
ARTICLE 27: NON WAIVER
Unless expressly waived in writing, the fact that one Party does not exercise in whole or in part the
rights which are conferred on it by this Infrastructure Agreement shall not constitute in any case an
abandonment of the rights which it has not exercised.

32

ARTICLE 28: NOTIFICATIONS
28.1 Form of Notification:
Any notification made in connection with this Infrastructure Agreement must be in written form and must
be transmitted to its addressee by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt or by special
courier or by certified telex, whether or not preceded by a fax, to the addresses below:
Ministry of Mines and Geology
To the attention of:
His Excellency the Minister
Address:
Immeuble ANAIM – CBG, BP 295, Conakry, République de Guinée
Telephone:
+ (224) 30 45 45 26
Fax:
+ (224) 30 41 19 13
ANAIM
To the attention of:
Address:
Telephone:
Fax:

Directeur Général ANAIM
Immeuble ANAIM – CBG, BP 295, Conakry, République de Guinée
+ (224) 30 45 45 26
+ (224) 30 41 19 13

All notifications to GAC SA and GAC Ltd must be made to the addresses below:
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA
To the attention of:
General Manager
Address:
Immeuble Mamou, BP 5090, Conakry, République de Guinée
Telephone:
+224 63 35 42 84
GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION Ltd
To the attention of:
Chief Executive Officer
Address:
P.O. Box 3252, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands
Telephone:
+61 7 3167 5183
Fax:
+61 7 3167 5001
28.2 Change of Address:
Any change of address must be notified in writing as soon as possible by the Party concerned to the
other Parties.

33

Executed in Conakry, on_________________ 2010 (in four (4) originals in French).

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA:

FOR THE AGENCE NATIONALE
D’AMENAGEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES
MINIERES:

His Excellency Mahmoud Thiam
Minister of Mines and Geology

Mr. Saada Baïla Ly
General Manager SNIM

FOR GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION SA:

FOR GUINEA ALUMINA CORPORATION Ltd:

Mr. Eddy Kenter
CEO

Mr. Eddy Kenter
CEO

34

LIST OF ANNEXES TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE AGREEMENT
Annex 3 A:

Plans and General Specifications of Domestic Infrastructures

Annex 3 B:

Technical Characteristics of Existing Infrastructures

Annex 3 C:

Technical Characteristics of Additional Infrastructures and Installations

Annex 3 D:

Technical Specification of the New Commercial Dock and Implementation
Programme

Annex 3 E:

Operating principles regarding the use of the Main Railway Line and the Port

Annex 3 F:

Practical operating terms of the Technical Committee

Annex 3 G:

Current Port Charges

Annex 3 H:

Capacity allocation principles

Annex 3 I:

Minutes concerning capacity

35

Annex 3 A - Plans and General Specifications of the Domestic Infrastructures
The drawings set forth hereunder are indicative only.
3A-1: The developments and constructions on the Main Railway Line in the Industrial Zone (Kamsar), at
the junction point PK 1 + 800.

36

3A-2: Railway system in the Industrial Zone (Kamsar)

37

3A-3: Railway system in the Plant zone (Sangarédi)

38

Annex 3 B - Technical Characteristics of Existing Infrastructures
3B-1: Main Railway Line
The Main Railway Line links the Sangarédi mine and the Kamsar port and is about 136 km long. It
includes 5 stations among those are two 1.5 km passing tracks in Boke and Gobire.
The technical specifications of the Main Railway Line are as following:
-

Normal track............................................................................................................1435 mm

-

UIC-60 and 136 RE rail 60.30 kg/m (Marshalling Yards at Kamsar and Sangarédi) and
67.39 kg/m (Main Railway Line)

-

Sleepers.................................................................................................................. 1700/Km

-

Doleritic ballast.............................................................................................................35 cm

-

Type K fastener (adjusting clips) .......................................................................C65 and C75

-

Maximum axle load .............................................................................................. 27.5 T/axle

-

Basic declivity:
-

In the direction of loaded trains ........................................................................... 5°/°°

-

In the direction of empty trains .......................................................................... 15°/°°

-

Minimum radius............................................................................................................500 m

-

Vertical curve radius................................................................................................10,000 m

-

Length of main track............................................................................................... 136.7 Km

-

Number of passing loops.....................................................................................................4
-

Kolaboui .............................................................................................................150 m

-

Boké .................................................................................................................1700 m

-

Tanènè .............................................................................................................1700 m

-

Gobiré ..............................................................................................................1700 m

-

Number of Marshalling Yards............................................................................................ (3)

-

Elevation tolerance(+) (-).........................................................3 mm in curve or in alignment

-

Speed of mineral trains ............................................................................................ 60 Km/h

-

Speed of passenger trains ....................................................................................... 70 Km/h

39

Slopes and ramps are limited to 5°/°° in the direction from the Mine to the Port and 20°/°° and in the
direction from the Port to the Mine. They are not compensated.
-

Compensation .......................................................................................0.04% (1, 745.38)/R

-

Banking ........................................................................................maximum banking 86 mm

-

Rails (main track) ......................................................................................................136 RE

-

UIC type sleepers....................................................................................................... 77 kgs

-

Junctions ...................................................................................................................Tg 0.11

3B-2: The Channel
The access Channel to the Kamsar Port is 120 m wide and about 17 km long. It is dredged down to –
9,0 m on average and is marked out by 19 metal buoys.
3B-3: The Italian Dock
With a total length of a 120 m and a width of 50 m, the Italian Dock is used by the port services. It
occasionally receives small size cargo vessels.
3B-4: The French Dock
With a length of 120 m and a width of 50 m, the French Dock accommodates cargo vessel up to 100 m
of length, featuring a 90 tones at 15 m radius Derrick crane.

40

Annex 3 C - Technical Characteristics of Additional Infrastructures and Installations
The drawings and schedule set forth hereunder are indicative only.
3C-1: Railway related infrastructure
Construction duration

6 Months

25 Months

29 Months
16 Months

12 Months

9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35
8
7
6
5
4
3
2

41

Rail
Infrastructure

Industrial
Installations and
Equipment

Port Installations

Stabilization of
the Port Zone

New Commercial
Dock

1
months

Construction Durations

The present schedule is an approximation only and has been developed under the same principles
applicable to the Project schedule provided in the Basic Agreement.

Technical specifications
Once a year, the Concessionaire will carry out ultrasonic scan or any other Rules of the Art technique in
order to record data on the whole length of the new constructed rails.
All improvement or extension of the Main Railway Line must be compatible with the existing
infrastructures as stated in the Schedule of Specifications and mentioned here after:
-

Normal track...........................................................................................................1435 mm

-

UIC-60 and 136 RE rail 60.30 kg/m (Marshalling Yards at Kamsar and Sangarédi) and
67.39 kg/m (Main Railway Line)

-

Sleepers ................................................................................................................. 1700/Km

-

Doleritic ballast ............................................................................................................35 cm

-

Type K fastener (adjusting clips) ......................................................................C65 and C75

-

Maximum axle load ............................................................................................. 27.5 T/axle

-

Basic declivity:
-

In the direction of the port .................................................................................. 5°/°°

-

In the direction of the Refinery ........................................................................... 5°/°°

-

Minimum radius ...........................................................................................................500 m

-

Vertical curve radius...............................................................................................10,000 m

-

Elevation tolerance (+) (-).......................................................3 mm in curve or in alignment

-

Speed of mineral trains ........................................................................................... 60 Km/h

-

Speed of passenger trains....................................................................................... 70 Km/h

-

Compensation .......................................................................................0.04% (1, 745.38)/R

-

Banking ........................................................................................maximum banking 86 mm

-

Rails (main track) ......................................................................................................136 RE

-

Junction.....................................................................................................................Tg 0.11

42

The connecting spur of the Main Railway Line starting at the junction point and leading to the
plant of Sangarédi, of a length of approximately 15 kilometres

43

Rail crossing of Petoun Djiga River

44

The developments and constructions on the Main Railway Line at the junction point PK 104+900

45

Rail Signaling and Communication
The connection of the GAC SA railway system to the existing system at Kamsar and Sangarédi must be
consistent with the existing equipments. The communication and signaling system will be installed by
the Concessionaire of the Main Railway Line. The schematic diagrams of the connection are attached
hereinafter.
The switches and level crossings on the Main Railway Line will be under the control of the
Concessionaire of the Main Railway Line.

46

47

48

3C-2: Channel related infrastructure
Channel improvements
To allow the increase in the sea traffic in the Port of Kamsar related to the Project, no deepening or
widening work will be necessary in the Channel. The Channel is currently maintained to – 9.0 m.
For safe operation of the GAC SA Alumina Dock it be will be necessary to create by dredging a turning
basin opposite the GAC SA quay that will allow CBG empty ships to wait at anchor safely clear of the
GAC SA Alumina Dock without causing any restriction to the GAC SA shipping operation and viceversa. Any future extensions related to the Project shall require a detailed study of the Parties and the
approval of the Technical Committee.
Any material dredged will be deposited in disposal sites approved by the Management of the Kamsar
Port.
Maritime Signaling and Communication
At arrival or prior to departure, of GAC SA’s vessels in the Kamsar Port will follow the procedure of
using radio VHF and telephone to communicate with the port authority and the pilots office.

49

3C-3: The New Commercial Dock
The technical specifications and the planning of the New Commercial Dock are given in Annex 3D.

50

Annex 3 D - Technical specifications of the New Commercial Dock and Implementation Program
The drawings and schedule set forth hereunder are indicative only.
Technical specifications
The New Commercial Dock which will be located at the Port of Kamsar will be built to receive cargo
liners of a capacity reaching 10,000 DWT. The New Commercial Dock will be used to discharge
various materials and equipments. Once discharged, the equipments and materials will be moved to the
Refinery site by road or rail or the Alumina Dock platform by road.
The New Commercial Dock and its associated installations will include:
•

The deepening of the existing French Dock channel to gives access to the New
Commercial Dock. The Channel will be dredged to - 6 m depth, approximately 600 m of
length and 60 m of width. A berthing pocket, adjacent to the New Commercial Dock, will be
dredged at approximately - 9,5 m of depth. This berthing pocket will be approximately 175
m of length and 30 m of width.

•

A quay with steel foundation piles and a deck made of concrete having 170 m of length and
35 m of width. The quay will allow the loading and the unloading of goods between boats
and the shore.

•

The equipments of the quay will include: fenders, mooring bollards, navigation aids,
ladders, etc.

•

An approach trestle with steel piles and a concrete deck will provide the access from the
New Commercial Dock. This trestle will have a length of 70 m and a width of 8 m.

•

It is planned to try to utilize the existing rail system at French Dock in conjunction with CBG
to move some of the construction materials to the Refinery site.

•

A Lay-down Zone will be provided to the north of French Dock to marshal the trucks that
will take the construction material to the construction areas.

•

A temporary barge unloading facility may be installed in the Lay-down Zone to facilitate the
return of containers.

•

General measures of Security, in particular guardrails.

•

Other elements necessary to the operation of a port lay down area.

The structures will be designed in accordance with international standards for marine structures.
The materials used will be adapted to the marine environment.
The security and load factors will be based on the BS 6349 standard or international equivalent.
The design of concrete structures will be done in compliance with the BS 8500 standard or international
equivalent.

51

52

Rail
Infrastructure

Industrial
Installations and
Equipment

Port Installations

Stabilization of
the Port Zone

New Commercial
Dock

16 Months

12 Months

6 Months

25 Months

29 Months

months 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35

Construction Durations

Construction Duration

The present schedule is an approximation only and has been developed under the same principles
applicable to the Project schedule provided in the Basic Agreement.

New Commercial Dock working zone
Coordinates of the New Commercial Dock working zone:
Work Point

Northing

Easting

WP 1
WP 2
WP 3
WP 4
WP 5
WP 6
WP 7
WP 8
WP 9
WP 10
WP 11
WP 12
WP 13
WP 14

N 1 177 500
N 1 177 500
N 1 177 750
N 1 177 750
N 1 177 450
N 1 177 340
N 1 177 360
N 1 177 341
N 1 177 285
N 1 177 290
N 1 177 327
N 1 177 370
N 1 177 255
N 1 177 300

E 541 100
E 541 800
E 541 900
E 542 080
E 542 086
E 542 093
E 542 142
E 542 139
E 542 033
E 541 966
E 541 918
E 541 720
E 541 695
E 541 097

Coordinates of the Lay-down Zone:
Work Point

Northing

Easting

WP 2
WP 3
WP 4
WP 5

N 1 177 500
N 1 177 750
N 1 177 750
N 1 177 450

E 541 800
E 541 900
E 542 080
E 542 086

53

WP 1

54

WP 14

WP 13

WP 2

WP 3

WP 12

WP 10

WP 11

WP 5

WP 9

WP 6

WP 4

WP 8

WP 7

Annex 3 E – Operating principles regarding the use of the Main Railway Line and the Port
Operating rules:
(1)

The Concessionaire is to provide sufficient daily train and channel slots over the number
required by the combined operations which can be used as slots for either users to ensure
that their production levels can be meet.

(2)

The Concessionaire must ensure that all users are allowed to operate their trains and ships
in an efficient manner to meet their production rates.

(3)

The Concessionaire will provide sufficient train and channel slots a day for the users.
These slots will be spaced over the day to suit the train and ships operation schedules of
the users.

(4)

The Concessionaire will not cancel an allocated slot once allocated, unless agreed to by
the parties and the next available slot is offered in substitution provided there is no
disruption to other allocated slots.

(5)

If any users’ train or ship is late for its allotted slot the Concessionaire will ensure that the
late train or ship can take up the next available slot provided there is no disruption to other
allocated slots.

(6)

All parties shall work together to achieve the smooth and efficient operation of the supply
chain being the combined port and railway infrastructures.

Shipping Protocols:
(1)

Shipping to be scheduled so that ship arrivals and departures are aligned to ships draft,
water depth and current direction.

(2)

All ship movements incoming and outgoing within the boundary of the Channel will be
subject to draft, water depth and current conditions.

(3)

Laden incoming and outgoing ships can move on the same tide, draft, depth and current
permitting.

(4)

Laden outgoing ships have priority over laden incoming ships due to draft, water depth and
current conditions.

(5)

Laden ships have priority over empty ships on incoming and outgoing tides.

(6)

The latest time a laden outgoing ship can sail is one hour before high tide.

(7)

Ships can move through the channel in either direction at 1 hour intervals dependent on
berth availability, draft, water depth and current conditions.

55

Annex 3 F – Practical operating terms of the Technical Committee
2.1: Composition:
The Technical Committee shall be composed of two (2) representatives of each User (GAC SA and
CBG), two (2) representatives of the Concessionaire and four (4) representatives of the State/ANAIM.
The Technical Committee will meet at least once every six months or more often, at the request of one
of its members.
The Technical Committee shall be chaired by one of the State/ANAIM representatives and a
representative of the Concessionaire shall serve as the Secretary.
Between its meetings, the chairman shall be responsible for the coordination of all communications
within the Technical Committee.
2.2

Mission:
a)
1.

The mission of the Technical Committee is to take decisions regarding strategic
questions with respect to the use, expansions and renovations of the infrastructures
under concession.

2.

The Technical Committee shall monitor the effective implementation of the
Operations Agreement.

3.

The Technical Committee is responsible for examining the annual programmes for
railway transport and ship movements prepared and submitted by the
Concessionaire on the basis of the individual programmes of the users established in
accordance with this Operations Agreement in order to obtain a consensus on their
application.

4.

The Technical Committee is responsible for analysing and validating the investment
proposals and the operation budget submitted by the Concessionaire.

5.

Each member of the Technical Committee is responsible for making available to the
Technical Committee the information necessary to fulfill its mission.

6.

The Technical Committee is responsible for monitoring and advising the
Concessionaire in order to improve the operation in order to reduce the operating
costs of the infrastructures.

7.

The Technical Committee is responsible for monitoring and providing advice
regarding the management, use and maintenance of the infrastructures while having
as main objective the optimum use as well as the users’ production and profitability
objectives, and this while maintaining a safe and secure environment accordance
with the Rules of the Art.

56

b)
The Concessionaire is responsible for the maintenance of the Existing Infrastructure and the
Additional Infrastructure and Installations of common use (subject to article 7.5 of the Operations
Agreement as regards the New Commercial Dock) the day-to-day operation of the railway
transport and ship movement operations in consultation with the users and in accordance with
the provisions hereof and the Concession Agreement.
The Concessionaire shall resolve operational issues that may arise in relation with the objectives
of the users in accordance with the annual programmes set out according to the Operations
Agreement.
The Technical Committee shall not replace the Concessionaire as regards the day-to-day
operation of the infrastructures mentioned in the Operations Agreement.
c)
The management of the Kamsar Port, responsible for the operation of the port will update the
Kamsar Port Rules of 1997 and will set out new operating rules applicable to the Kamsar Port for
the efficient and safe operation of the Port.
The management of the Main Railway Line, responsible for the operation of the Main Railway
Line will set out new operating rules applicable to the Main Railway Line for the efficient and safe
operation of the railway.
These new operating rules shall reflect the operating plans and methodologies agreed upon by
GAC SA, CBG and the Concessionaire, and annexed hereto (Annex 3E). Both managements
shall collaborate with the Technical Committee in this respect to ensure the practical
implementation of such plans and methodologies. Once so finalized, the new operating rules
applicable to the Main Railway Line and the Kamsar Port shall be submitted for approval to the
relevant State authorities. Following such approval, the Technical Committee shall provide copies
of such rules to all parties to the Operations Agreement.
2.3

Operation

For issues which do not relate to day-to-day operation, the Technical Committee shall adopt its
decisions by consensus. If no consensus is reached within the period set out in the Operations
Agreement or if, for an action for which the Operations Agreement has not provided for a period, no
consensus is reached within 90 days following the date the Technical Committee discussed the
necessity of a decision, then in each of these cases, the chairman, acting on behalf of the State – the
owner of the infrastructures – will seek the advice of an independent expert whose competence in the
field of infrastructures operation is internationally recognized, he will inform the parties and take his
decision under his responsibility at the end of the period in question.
The application of this procedure and any decision taken by the State may not limit the right of any
member of the Technical Committee to challenge such decision and to protect its rights against any
adverse consequence which could result from such decision, such challenge shall be made in
accordance with the dispute resolution provisions that exist in all the agreements to which such
challenging party (to the Operations Agreement) is party.

57

Annex 3 G – Current Port Charges
The Port Charges applicable at the Effective Date are as set out hereafter.
PORT CHARGES 2010 (USD)
HARBOUR DUES & FEES

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.04

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

400.00
400.00

Per vessel
Per vessel

400.00

400.00

400.00

400.00

400.00

Per vessel per call

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

0.04
0.07

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

100.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
600.00

FIXED RATES
Pilotage
Tugboat service

- Docking
- Undocking

Light Dues
Harbour dues
Agent fees
Small Misc
Banana car
Freighters
Tankers
Bulk carriers

- Anchorage
- Alongside
Under 5,000 NRT *
Under 10,000 NRT
Under 10,000 NRT
Under 20,000 NRT
Over 20,000 NRT

NRT each way

NRT per call
NRT per call
Per call
Per call
Per call
Per call
Per call

* NRT = Net Registered Tonnage, referring to the English long ton of 2.240 pounds (1.016 kg)
VARIABLE RATES
Side wharfage
Additional royalty for the maintenance of the Channel
Top wharfage

0.455
0.047
0.219

0.521
0.047
0.219

0.465
0.033
0.085

0.283
0.033
0.085

0.246
0.034
0.098

Per ton of cargo
Per ton of cargo
Per ton of cargo

Total variable rates

0.721

0.787

0.583

0.401

0.378

Per ton of cargo

0.50

0.50

0.50

0.50

Custom

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

50.00
65.00

Per Week day
Per Week End day

Health (Quarantine)

20.00

20.00

20.00

20.00

Per call

ANAIM (Merchant Marine Inspection)
Import/export levy
a) First ,voyage in a calendar year
b) Each subsequent voyage

0.100
500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

500.00
120.00

Per cargo ton
Per call
Per call

Ships guards
PTT (Permit to use SATCOM)
Doctor visit
Hospitalization - Medical

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

225.00
59.00
25.00
150.00

Per 24 hours
Per call
Per visit
Per day

Crew change/ Repatriation:
a) immigration visa
b) Escort
c) Air fare Kamsar/Conakry
d) Transit fee (Hotel - food)

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

50.00
120.00
150.00
80.00

Each
Fixed
Each way
Per day

SERVICES AT COST
Water

International air fare to be arranged by ship's owners prior to leaving as well as PTA tickets

ANAIM and the Concessionaire will update the Port Charges from time to time.

58

Per cubic meter

Annex 3 H – Capacity allocation principles
1.

A capacity assessment using a proven methodology will be undertaken to determine
"absolute daily capacity" (“Capacity”).

2.

Any portion of Capacity allocated to a user (“User”) will be nominated “Allocated
Capacity”. A portion of Capacity which is not used will be nominated “Unallocated
Capacity”.

3.

The Concessionaire must make a register of the Allocated Capacity and the Unallocated
Capacity (the “Capacity Register”), keep it current and publish it at least twice per year.

4.

When a User wants to be allocated a portion of Capacity, it makes a request to the
Concessionaire, which allocates the Capacity on a “first come, first served” basis.

5.

If the Unallocated Capacity is sufficient for the User requirements, the User will be allocated
such Capacity and will pay for that Allocated Capacity.

6.

Once Capacity is allocated, and as long as the use of the Capacity is being paid, the
capacity will remain allocated for the entire duration of a User’s project.

7.

Should there be insufficient, Unallocated Capacity to accommodate the User requirements,
he or the State will fund the necessary works to create additional Capacity (“Additional
Capacity”) and he will be allocated sufficient of this for his requirements. He will pay for that
Additional Capacity and the charge will take account of the manner in which the Additional
Capacity has been funded, whether by the State or by the User.

8.

The Additional Capacity allocated to the User will be nominated as Allocated Capacity and
recorded as such in the Capacity Register.

9.

Any Additional Capacity not used by the User will be nominated as Unallocated Capacity
and recorded as such in the Capacity Register.

10.

Any Unallocated Capacity can be accessed by the Concessionaire on an ad-hoc basis for
the benefit of all Users.

59

Annex 3 I – Minutes concerning capacity

60

